
{173}

NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


No. 173.]
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 19. 1853
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                    Page

  Predictions of the Fire and Plague of London, No. II., by
    Vincent T. Sternberg                                       173

  Examples of the French Sizain, by W. Pinkerton               174

  Epigrams                                                     174

  "Goe, soule, the bodies guest," by George Daniel             175

  Petitions from the County of Nottingham                      175

  FOLK LORE:--Lancashire Fairy Tale--Teeth, Superstition
    respecting--New Moon Divination--The Hyena an Ingredient
    in Love Potions--The Elder Tree                            177

  MINOR NOTES:--The Word "Party"--Epitaphs--Campbell's
    "Pleasures of Hope"--Palindromical Lines--"Derrick"
    and "Ship's Painter"--Lord Reay's Country                  177

  QUERIES:--

  Unanswered Queries                                           178

  Mr. John Munro, by Dan. Wilson                               179

  MINOR QUERIES:--Song in Praise of the Marquess of
    Granby--Venda--The Georgiad--R. S. Townshend of
    Manchester--"Mala malæ malo"--"Dimidium Scientiæ"--
    Portrait Painters--"An Impartial Inquiry," &c.--"As
    poor as Job's Turkey"--Fuss--Suicide encouraged in
    Marseilles--Fabulous Bird--Segantiorum Portus--Stamping
    on Current Coinage--Rhymes: Dryden--The Cadenham
    Oak--St. Mary's Church, Beverley--The Rev. Joshua
    Marsden--Bentley's Examination--Derivation of
    "Lowbell"--Meaning of Assassin--Punishment for
    exercising the Roman Catholic Religion--Hogarth's
    Pictures--Lines in a Snuff-box--Rosa Mystica--Old-Shoe
    throwing at Weddings--Herbé's Costumes Français            179

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Humphry Smith--Meaning and
    Etymology of "Conyngers" or "Connigries"--Letters U, V, W,
    and St. Ives                                               182

  REPLIES:--

  The Orkney Islands in Pawn                                   183

  The Passage in King Henry VIII., Act. III. Sc. 2, by
    S. W. Singer                                               183

  Miniature Ring of Charles I., by C. Ley                      184

  Chantry Chapels                                              185

  PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES:--The Collodion
    Process--Mr. Weld Taylor's Iodizing Process--Sir
    William Newton's Process: Further Explanations             185

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Lady Nevell's Music-book--
    Tuch--Eva, Princess of Leinster--Whipping Post--The
    Dodo--"Then comes the reckoning," &c.--Sir J. Covert,
    not Govett--Chatterton--Tennyson--Llandudno on the Great
    Orme's Head--Oldham, Bishop of Exeter--Arms of
    Bristol--The Cross and the Crucifix--Sir Kenelm
    Digby--Martin Drunk--The Church Catechism--Sham Epitaphs
    and Quotations--Door-head Inscription--Potguns--"Pompey
    the Little"--Eagles supporting Lecterns--Lady Day in
    Harvest--Inscriptions in Churches--Macaulay's Young
    Levite, &c.                                                187

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                 194

  Notices to Correspondents                                    194

  Advertisements                                               195

       *       *       *       *       *


Notes.

PREDICTIONS OF THE FIRE AND PLAGUE OF LONDON, NO. II.

One of the most striking predictions occurs in Daniel Baker's _Certaine
Warning for a Naked Heart_, Lond. 1659. After much invective against the
evil ways of the metropolis, he proceeds:

    "A fire, a consuming fire, shall be kindled in the bowels of the earth,
    which will scorch with burning heat all hypocrites, unstable,
    double-minded workers of iniquity.... A great and large slaughter shall
    be throughout the land of darkness where the unrighteous decrees and
    laws have been founded. Yea, a great effusion of blood, fire, and smoke
    shall encrease up in the dark habitations of cruelty; howling and great
    wailing shall be on every hand in all her streets."

Thomas Ellwood disposes of the city in a very summary manner:

    "For this shall be judgment of Babylon (saith the Lord); in one day
    shall her plagues come upon her, _death_, and _mourning_, and famine,
    and she shall be utterly burnt with fire; for great is the Lord who
    judgeth her."--_Alarm to the Priests_, Lond. 1662.

George Fox also claims to have had a distinct prevision of the fire (See
_Journal_, p. 386., ed 1765.) He also relates the story of a Quaker who was
moved to come out of Huntingdonshire a little before the fire, and to--

    "Scatter his money up and down the streets, turn his horse loose, untie
    the knees of his breeches, and let his stockings fall down, and to tell
    the people 'so they should run up and down scattering their money and
    goods, half undressed, like mad people, as he was a sign to them,'
    which they did when the city was burning."

Lilly's celebrated book of _Hieroglyphicks_, which procured the author the
dubious honour of an examination before the committee appointed to inquire
into the origin of the fire, is well known. In one of the plates, a large
city, understood to denote London, is enveloped in flames; and another rude
woodcut, containing a large amount of graves and corpses, was afterwards
interpreted to bear reference to the Plague. Aubrey seems to be a {174}
little jealous of the renown which Lilly acquired by these productions for
he asserts that--

    "Mr. Thomas Flatman (poet) did affirm that he had seen those
    _Hieroglyphicks_ in an old parchment manuscript, writ in the time of
    the monks."--_Misc._, p. 125. ed. 1721.

Nostradamus also, more than a century before, is said to have foretold the
very year of the burning. In the edition, or reputed edition, of 1577,
cent. ii. quatrain 51., is the following:

 "Le sang du jusse à Londres fera faute
  Bruslez par foudres de vingt trois les six
  La dame anticque cherra de place haute
  De mesme secte plusieurs seront occis."

Those of your readers who incline to dubiety on this subject, I refer to
the copy from whence it was taken, in the Museum Library, press-mark 718. a
14. If it is a forgery (and such I take it to be), it is decidedly the best
I ever met with. Some time ago the Queries of your correspondent SPERIEND
elicited some interesting particulars relative to Nostradamus and his
prophecies; but I do not think the question of his claim to having
predicted the death of Charles I. was finally decided.

I should be glad if any of your correspondents could tell me whether the
quatrain above, or anything like it, occurs in any of the _genuine_ early
editions. Dugdale, by the way, evidently believed in its authenticity, and
has inserted a version in his _History of St. Paul's_.

Such a promising theme as the destruction of London was, of course, too
good a thing to escape the chap-book makers. During the period of the Civil
Wars, we find many allusions to it. In a little quarto brochure, published
in 1648, entitled _Twelve Strange Prophecies_, the following is placed in
the mouth of the much maligned and caricatured Mrs. Ann Shipton. The
characteristic termination I consider a fine stroke of the art
vaticinatory.

    "A ship shall come sayling up the Thames till it come to London, and
    the master of the ship shall weep, and the mariners shall ask him why
    he weepeth, and he shall say, 'Ah, what a goodly city was this! none in
    the world comparable to it! and now there is scarce left any house
    _that can let us have drinke for our money_.'"

This string of notes, turned up at different times, and while in search of
more important matter, can no doubt be materially increased from the
collections of your correspondents. If my researches prove interesting, I
may trouble you with another paper: at present I leave the facts brought
together above to the candid investigation of your readers.

VINCENT T. STERNBERG.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXAMPLES OF THE FRENCH SIZAIN.

The epigram (if it may with propriety receive that appellation) printed in
Vol. vi., p. 603., reminded me of some similar pieces of composition stored
in my note-book; and as they are not devoid of a certain degree of curious
interest, I now forward them _pro bono publico_.

On Luther, Calvin, and Henry VIII., the leaders of the Reformation:

 "Vous, dont le sens est encore sain,
  Fuyez Luther, Henri, Calvin.
  Vous, dont le coeur n'est point flétri,
  Fuyez Calvin, Luther, Henri.
  Vous, à qui le salut est cher,
  Fuyez Henri, Calvin, Luther."

On the death of Francis II.:

 "Par l'oeil, par l'oreille, et l'épaule,
  Trois rois sont morts naguère en Gaule;
  Par l'épaule, l'oreille, et l'oeil,
  Trois rois son entrés au cercueil;
  Par l'épaule, l'oeil, et l'oreille,
  Dieu a montré grande merveille."

By Beaumarchais:

 "Connaissez-vous rien de plus sot
  Que Merlin, Bazire, et Chabot?
  Non, certes, il n'est rien de pire
  Que Chabot, Merlin, et Bazire;
  Et nul ne vit-on plus coquin
  Que Chabot, Bazire, et Merlin."

A more modern one still, date 1842:

 "L'Etat est fort mal attelé
  Avec Thiers, Guizot, ou Molé;
  L'Etat marche tout de travers,
  Avec Molé, Guizot, ou Thiers;
  Vers l'abîme il court à galop,
  Avec Molé, Thiers, ou Guizot."

The prophecy in the last two lines has been unfortunately fulfilled.

W. PINKERTON.

Ham.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAMS.

The two epigrams which follow were communicated to me many years ago by the
Rev. George Loggin, M.A., of Hertford College, long one of the masters of
Rugby School. He died July 15, 1824, at the age of forty; and this
reminiscence of their old tutor's name will be welcomed by many a Rugbæan.
They were represented to have proceeded from the pen of Thomas Dunbar of
Brasenose, who, from 1815 to 1822, was keeper of the Ashmolean Museum. I
have never seen them in print, or even in writing. They were recited
_memoriter_, and from memory I write them down; and hence, no doubt, there
will be some deviations from the true text. But they seem too good to be
lost; and I am not {175} without hope that a correct copy may eventually be
elicited from some of your correspondents.

With regard to the first, whether the lines were really made on the
occasion stated, or the occasion was invented (as I am inclined to suspect)
to suit the lines, is perhaps not very material:

 "_Reply to Miss Charlotte Ness, who inquired the meaning_
  _of the logical terms_ ABSTRACT _and_ CONCRETE.

 "'Say what is _Abstract_, what _Concrete_?
    Their difference define.'
 'They both in one fair person meet,
    And that, dear maid, is thine.'

 'How so? The riddle pray undo.'
   'I thus your wish express;
  For when I lovely Charlotte view,
    I then view loveli-_Ness_.'"

On a certain D.D. (who, from a peculiarity in his walk, had acquired the
_sobriquet_ of Dr. Toe) being jilted by Miss H----, who eloped with her
father's footman:

 "'Twixt Footman Sam and Doctor Toe
    A controversy fell,
  Which should prevail against his foe,
    And bear away the belle.
  The lady chose the footman's heart.
    Say, who can wonder? no man:
  The whole prevail'd above the part,
   'Twas _Foot_-man _versus_ _Toe_-man."

I should like to ascertain the author of the following:

  _The Parson_ versus _Physician_.

 "How D.D. swaggers--M.D. rolls!
    I dub them both a brace of noddies:--
  Old D.D. takes the cure of souls,
    And M.D. takes the care of bodies.
  Between them both what treatment rare
    Our souls and bodies must endure!
  One takes the _cure_ without the _care_,
    T'other the _care_ without the _cure_."

BALLIOLENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOE, SOULE, THE BODIES GUEST."

I have a cotemporaneous MS. of this wonderfully-fine poem, that came into
my possession with a certain rare bunch of black-letter ballads, printed
between the years 1559 and 1597, and all of them unique (of the said bunch,
Mr. Editor, more hereafter), which contains two additional verses not to be
found in _A Poetical Rhapsodie_, compiled by Francis Davison, and "printed
by William Stansby for Roger Jackson, dwelling in Fleet Street, neere the
great Conduit, 1611;" nor in _Poems by Sir Henry Wotton, Sir Walter
Raleigh, and others_, carefully edited by the Rev. John Hannah, M.A., and
published by my friend William Pickering in 1845. They are prefaced by the
word "Additions." They are written on the same leaf, and in the same quaint
hand, and are as follow:

  Tell London of their stewes,
    Tell marchants of their usury;
  And, though it be no newes,
    Tell courtyers of theyr lechery;
  And if they will reply,
    They best deserve the lye.

  Let cuckolds be remembred,
    I will not dye theyr debtor;
  Theire heads beying armed,
    Theyl beare the brunt the better;
  And if they chaunce reply,
    Theyr wives know best they lye.

Having compared this MS. with the poem as it is printed in the
above-mentioned volumes (both of which are in my library), I find it
contains several variations, not however very important. Though these
"Additions," in good taste, expression, and power, do not equal the noble
verses that precede them, they are interesting and curious, and well worthy
of preservation. After much inspection and inquiry, I have not discovered
that they have ever yet appeared in print. The cabinet in which they slept,
and the company they kept (undisturbed, it would appear) for more than two
centuries, assure me that they have not been published.

If you, Mr. Editor, or any of your many friends desire to see this MS., say
so, and you and they shall be welcome. It has been in my possession
(unseen) twenty years.

GEORGE DANIEL.

Canonbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

PETITIONS FROM THE COUNTY OF NOTTINGHAM.

The documents, copies of which I inclose, are written on the blank leaves
in a copy of Willett's _Hexapla_, edit. 1611. I should be glad to know if
the petitions, of which they are drafts, or rather copies, were presented,
and _when_? There is no date to the petitions; but the copy of a letter, on
another blank page, which seems to be in the same handwriting (signed
"William Middleton"), is dated February 5th, 1658. Any information
regarding the parties whose names are appended to the petitions would be
acceptable.

        "To his Highness the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England,
        Scotland, and Ireland, and the dominions and territories thereunto
        belonging, the humble Address and Petition of diuers Justices of
        the Peace, Gentlemen, Ministers of the Gospell, and others,
        wel-affected persons, inhabitants in the County of Nottingham.

    "Upon consideration of the signall and glorious appearances of God on
    the behalfe of his people and interest, wherein he hath pleased to make
    great use of your Highness, we account ourselues deeply engaged to
    acknowledge the wonderfull power, wisdome, and {176} goodness of God,
    and to ascribe the glory to him alone, yet would we not be found
    ingratefull to your Highness, as an eminent instrument under God of the
    peace and liberty we have injoyed, with a continued series of manifold
    mercies from the Lord, under your Highness' gouernment (notwithstanding
    all our declensions and unworthynesses), together with the influence it
    hath had upon the nations abroad to the promoteing of the Protestant
    interest, we judge it alsoe exceedingly remarkable that the Lord hath
    so signally blasted the pernicious designes of the common enemy against
    your Highness' person and gouernment, and against the common interest
    of the people of God and of these nations, for which we desire
    unfeignedly to bless the Lord.

        "These things premised, we humbly pray,

    "That the Lord would please to stir up the heart and strengthen the
    hands of your Highness, in carrying on what yet remains for the
    reforming of these nations (according to the word of God) and the
    secureing of the interest of godlyness and righteousness for the
    future, that such as are found in the faith and of holy conversation
    may live peaceably, and receive encouragement to persevere in that upon
    which the Lord may delight to doe your Highness and these nations good;
    in order whereunto we humbly propose these following particulars to
    your Highness' consideration:

    "1. First, that a stop may be put to the spreading infection of
    damnable errors and heresies, by a lively and due suppressing of them
    according to the mind of the Lord.

    "2. That an effectuall course may be taken for the curbeing of all
    profaneness and libertineisme by the sword of justice, which the Lord
    hath put into your magistrates' hands.

    "3. That your Highness would haue an eye upon the designes of the
    common enemy in generall, and particularly on this (vid.), their
    traininge up a young generation in the old destructive principles, as
    also on the designes of any persons whatsoeuer that indeauour to
    disturb your Highness' gouernment and the peace of these nations.

    "4. That the lawes of the nation may be reuised, that for what in them
    is agreeable to the rules of righteousness may be continued and
    executed, and whatever corruption is crept into, or may grow up in,
    courts of judicature may be duly purged away.

    "5. That in your Highness' lifetime such prouision be made for the
    future gouernment of the commonwealth, as may secure the interest of
    good people of these nations for succeeding generations, that they may
    call you blessed.

    "And in the prosecution of such ends we shall be ready, as the Lord
    shall help us, with all that is dear to us, to defend your Highness'
    person and gouernment, with the true interest of religion and the
    lawes, and shall ever pray, &c.

     "---- ANSLEY.
      CHRYSTOPHER SANDERSON, Minister of Annesley.
      WILL. LEE.          JOHN DAN.
      GEO. BRITTAIN.
      ABRAHAM" [Torn off].

    "_To the honourable the Parliament of England._

        "The humble Petition of diuers Gentlemen, Ministers of the Gospell,
        and others, inhabiteing in the County of Nottingham,

        "Sheweth,

    "That your petitioners, haueing seriously considered how much of a
    thorough reformation of religion and pure administration of the
    ordinances of Christianity would tend to the honour of God, the good of
    soules, and the abundant satisfaction of the truly godly in this
    nation, who have long waited for these mercies as the return of their
    prayers, and the fruit of their expense both of blood and treasure, and
    being alsoe very sensible that the duty we owe to God, the eminent and
    signall mercies of God towards this nation, and our own solemn
    engagements, doe strongly oblidge us euery one in our places, to the
    utmost of our power, to indeauour the promoteing and aduancement of
    pure gospell worship, we are humbly bold to address ourselues to your
    honors.

    "We are not undmindfull of, nor would we be unthankfull for, what hath
    been indeauoured this way by former Parliaments, yet we cannot but
    sadly resent the many obstructions this work hath hitherto met withall,
    and how much it hath been retarded, chiefly, we confess, by our own
    sins, and the sins of these nations, partly through the malice of
    Satan, the diuisions of brethren, the secret and subtile practices of
    Romish emissaries, fomenting errors and heresies, and not a little, as
    we humbly conceive, through the want of church gouernment, settled and
    established by the ciuil authority, whereby those unto whom the
    exercise of church power is committed by Christ may be impoured to keep
    back ignorant and prophane persons from polluting the ordinances of
    God, as alsoe by reason of some ancient lawes, alledged and urged by
    diuers as yet in force, injoyning ministers to dispense the Sacrament
    of the Lord's Supper, without affording them (as we conceiue)
    sufficient power regularly to keep back such as are not duly qualified
    for the same, by reason whereof ministers are liable to prosecution att
    law (of which we have had a late instance in this county).

    "We therefore, your petitioners, in faithfulness to the interest of God
    and his glory, Christ and his gospell, our own and other men's soules,
    and from our sincere desires of the aduancement of the kingdome of
    Christ in these nations, in the promoting whereof the interest and
    welfare of states and nations is uery much concerned, we neither could
    nor durst be longer silent, but being persuaded of your willingness to
    act for Christ, and hopeing that God hath raised you up to carry on the
    work of reformation already begun amongst us, and to be repairers of
    our breaches and restorers of pathes to dwel in, we are incouraged
    humbly to pray,

    "1. That such ancient lawes as may be yet in force relating to the
    Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, so far as they are or may prove
    burdensome to truly godly and conscientious ministers and people, may
    be duly regulated.

    "2. That so far as you in your wisdomes shall think fitt, ordinances of
    Parliament that have been made after aduice had with the late Assembly
    of Diuines in order {177} to Church settlement, may be returned upon,
    and begun reformation carried on.

    "3. That in regard a thorough settlement of Church affaires may be long
    under debate, in the mean time some speedy and effectuall course may be
    taken, where by ignorant and scandalous persons may be kept from the
    Lord's Supper.

    "And your petitioners shall ever pray.

     "CHARLES JACKSON.
      LANCELOT COATES.
      WILL. COUP.
      FRANCIS BRUNT.
      WILL...LLOW [obliterated].
      JOHN HOYLAND.
      THO. SHAW.
      HEN. CLARK.
      WILL. FARNWORTH.
      CHRYSTOPHER CLARK.
      WILL. SAUNDER.
      GEORGE FLINT.
      DAUID TAYLOR.
      CHARLES SHEPHEARD.
      ES. BRETTUN."

T. S.

Leeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

_Lancashire Fairy Tale._--The nursery rhymes in one of your late Numbers
remind me of a story I used to be told in the nursery. It was, that two men
went poaching, and having placed nets, or rather sacks, over what they
supposed to be rabbit-holes, but which were in reality fairies' houses, the
fairies rushed into the sacks, and the poachers, content with their prey,
marched home again. A fairy missing another in the sack, called out (the
story was told in broad Lancashire dialect) "Dick (dignified name for a
fairy), where art thou?" To which fairy Dick replied,

       "In a sack,
        On a back,
  Riding up Barley Brow."

The story has a good moral ending, for the poachers were so frightened that
they never poached again.

T. G. C.

_Teeth, Superstition respecting_ (Vol. vi., p. 601.).--A similar (perhaps
the same) piece of childish superstition respecting the teeth is, that when
the upper incisors are large, it is a sign that you will live to be rich.

FURVUS.

_New Moon Divination._--Being lately on a visit in Yorkshire, I was amused
one evening to find the servants of the house excusing themselves for being
out of the way when the bell rang, on the plea that they had been "hailing
the first new moon of the new year." This mysterious salutation was
effected, I believe, by means of a looking-glass, in which the first sight
of the moon was to be had, and the object to be gained was the important
secret as to how many years would elapse before the marriage of the
observers. If one moon was seen in the glass, one year; if two, two years;
and so on. In the case in question, the maid and the boy saw only one moon
a-piece. Whether the superstition would, in this instance, be suggestive to
their minds of anything to be deduced from the coincidence, I do not know;
but as they were both very old-fashioned folks, I suppose the custom may
not be unknown to those learned in Folk Lore.

What is the orthodox mode of conducting this kind of divination?

OXONIENSIS.

_The Hyena an Ingredient in Love Potions._--In Busbequius's _Letters_
(Elzevir, 1633) I note that the Turks consider the hyena useful in love
potions. I extract the passage:

    "In amatoriis ei vim magnam Turcæ, ut etiam veteres, tribuunt, cumque
    essent duæ eo tempore Constantinopoli, mihi tamen vendere gravabantur,
    quod se Sultanæ, hoc est, principis uxori, eas reservare dicerent,
    quippe quas philtris et magicis artibus animum mariti retinere, recepta
    in vulgus (ut dixi) opinio est."--P. 84.

Allow me to add a Query: What ancient authors allude to this old specimen
of Folk Lore?

S. A. S.

Bridgewater.

_The Elder Tree._--I was visiting a poor parishioner the other day, when
the following question was put to me.

"Pray, Sir, can you tell me whether there is any doubt of what kind of wood
our Lord's cross was made? I have always heard that it was made of _elder_,
and we look carefully into the faggots before we burn them, for fear that
there should be any of this wood in them."

My Query is, Whether this is a common superstition?

RUBI.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_The Word "Party."_--Our facetious friend _Punch_ has recently made merry
with the modern use of the word "party," as applied to any absent person
concerned in any pending negotiation. It was used thus, however, by William
Salmon, professor of physic, in his _Family Dictionary_, 1705:

    "Let the party, if it can be agreeable, rub frequently his teeth with
    the ashes that remain in a pipe after it is smoaked."--P. 315.

    "Having cooled it, rub the party's mouth with a little of it," &c.--P.
    321.

E. D.

_Epitaphs._--Churchyard literature presents to us some curious specimens of
metaphor; and it is interesting to observe how an old idea is sometimes
unintentionally reproduced. The following lines may be seen on a gravestone
in the churchyard at Kinver, Staffordshire:

 "Tired with wand'ring thro' a world of sin,
  Hither we came to _Nature's common Inn_,
  To rest our wearied bodys for a night,
  In hopes to rise that Christ may give us light."

{178} The writer was probably not aware that Spenser says, in his _Faerie
Queen_, iii. 3. 30.:

 "And if he then with victorie can lin,
  He shall his days with peace bring to his _earthly In_."

And again, _Faerie Queen_, ii. 1. 59.:

 "Palmer, quoth he, death is an equall doome
  To good and bad, the _common In of rest_."

A Leicestershire poet has recorded, in the churchyard of Melton Mowbray, a
very different conception of our "_earthly Inn_." He says:

 "_This world's an Inn_, and I her guest:
  I've eat and drank and took my rest
  With her awhile, and now I pay
  Her lavish bill, and go my way."

You may, perhaps, consider this hardly worthy of a place in your paper; but
I act upon the principle which you inculcate in your motto.

ERICA.

_Campbell's "Pleasures of Hope."_--It has often occurred to me that in two
lines of the most celebrated passage in this poem,--

 "O'er Prague's proud arch the fires of ruin glow,
  Her blood-red waters murmuring far below,"

the author has confounded Prague, the capital of Bohemia, with Praga, the
suburb of Warsaw. The bridge over the Moldau, at the former place, is a
stone one of European celebrity; and to it Campbell must have referred when
using terms not at all applicable to that over the Vistula, which is of
much humbler form and material.

In Campbell's "Ode to the Highland Society on 21st March," he describes the
42nd Regiment as having been at Vimiera, which it assuredly was not; and no
Highland regiment was in the battle except the 71st. I suspect he
confounded the "Black Watch" with the distinguished corps next to it on the
army list,--an error into which the author of _Charles O'Malley_ also must
have fallen, as he makes Highlanders form a part of the Light Division,
which consisted of the 43rd, 52nd, and 95th.

J. S. WARDEN.

_Palindromical Lines._--In addition to the verses given by your
correspondent H. H. BREEN (Vol. vi., p. 449.), I send you the following, as
perhaps the most remarkable of its kind in existence. It is mentioned by
Jeremy Taylor as the inscription somewhere on a font. Letter by letter it
reads the same, whether taken backward or forwards:

[Greek: NIPSON ANOMÊMA MÊ MONAN OPSIN.]

"Wash my guilt, and not my face only."

AGRICOLA DE MONTE.

_"Derrick" and "Ship's Painter."_--The following Note may perhaps interest
some of your readers:--The ancient British word _derrick_, or some such
word, still exists in our marine. It is used in sea phrase to define a
crane for temporary purposes, and is not unusually represented by a single
spar, which is stepped near a hatchway, provided with a tackle or purchase,
in order to the removal of goods from the hold of a vessel. The use of
_Derry_, both as a termination in the names of places, and in the old
ballad chorus of _Down derry down_, is familiar to every one.

Some other of our sea terms might receive apt illustration in "N. & Q.;"
and I should beg to suggest "unde derivatur" a boat's _painter_,--the name
of the rope which confines a ship's boat to the vessel, when at sea.

Turner gave a world-wide interest to the phrase when he called, in his
eccentric manner, one of his finest marine pictures "Now for the painter."

J. C. G.

Tavistock Square.

_Lord Reay's Country._--Formerly the parish of Durness comprehended the
whole of the district known as "Lord Reay's country," or, as it is called
in Gaelic, "Duthaic Mhic Aoi," _i. e._ the land of the Mackays, extending
from the river of Borgie, near Strathnaver, to the Kyle of Assynt, and
comprehending a space of about 800 square miles! Since 1734 it has been
divided into three parishes, viz. Eddrachillis, Durness, and Tongue, with
the parish of Farr: it was disjoined from the presbytery of Caithness, and
by an act of the Assembly attached to the presbytery of Tongue.

KIRKWALLENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *


Queries.

UNANSWERED QUERIES.

I think it may be permitted to Querists, who may fail in obtaining answers,
to recur to their questions after the lapse of a reasonable time, in order
to awaken attention. I asked a question at page 270., Vol. vi., in which I
was, and still am, much interested. Perhaps MR. COLLIER will do me the
favour to answer it, particularly as his annotated folio is remarkably rich
in "_stage directions_."

Before taking the liberty of putting the question so directly to MR.
COLLIER, I awaited an examination of his recently-published volume of
selected corrections, in which, however, the point upon which I seek
information is not alluded to.

In glancing over that volume, I perceive that MR. COLLIER, in his notes at
the end (p. 508.), does "N. & Q." the honour to refer to it, by alluding to
an emendation "proposed by MR. CORNISH" ("N. & Q.," Vol. vi., p. 312.).

When that emendation appeared I recognised it at once as having been
proposed by Warburton and applauded by Dr. Johnson. I did not, however,
then think it of sufficient importance to trouble the editor of "N. & Q.,"
by correcting a claim which, although apparent, might not perhaps be
intentional. {179}

But now, since the ownership (_quantum valeat_) has deceived even MR.
COLLIER, and is endorsed by him, it is time to notice it.

A. E. B.

Leeds.

P.S.--I may add that, with respect to these words "happy low lie down,"
from my habit of looking for solutions of difficulties in parallels and
antitheses, I have arrived at a different conclusion from any that has yet
been suggested. Finding "uneasy" used _adverbially_ in the last line, I see
no reason why "happy" should not also be taken _adverbially_ in the
preceding line: we should then have the same verb, "lie" and "lies,"
repeated antithetically in the same mood and tense.

The article _the_ before "low" has probably been omitted in the press, and
may be either actually restored or elliptically understood:

 "Then _happy_ [the] low lie down;
  _Uneasy_ lies the head that wears a crown."

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. JOHN MUNRO.

Between the years 1803 and 1830, a gentleman resident of London, under the
signature A. Z., presented from time to time to the Society of Antiquaries
of Scotland, a collection of works respecting the Orkney and Shetland
islands, copiously illustrated with manuscript notes and inserted prints,
maps, &c. The internal evidence leaves no room to doubt that the donor of
this valuable collection was a native of Kirkwall; and recent
investigations lead to the conclusion that he was a Mr. John Munro,
originally in the office of Mr. John Heddle, Town Clerk of Kirkwall. He
appears to have gone to London about 1789, and to have passed the rest of
his life there, down to May, 1830, when his last communication was made to
the Scottish Antiquaries. A list of his donations is printed in the
_Archæologia Scotica_, vol. iii. pp. 267-274. His copious manuscript notes,
written in a very neat and legible hand, indicate not only a man of
intelligence and research, but also of an exceedingly amiable and kindly
disposition, and strongly influenced by the _amor patriæ_, which gave to
his donations their exclusive character.

I am anxious to ascertain what was Mr. Munro's occupation in London, the
date of his death, and any interesting or characteristic notes concerning
him. Judging from his tastes, it seems highly probable that he may have
been known to more than one of your metropolitan correspondents.

Perhaps you will not think such Queries undeserving of a corner in your
useful vehicle of literary intercommunication, nor A. Z.'s _anonimity_
unworthy of an effort to rede the riddle.

DAN. WILSON.

Edinburgh.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Song in Praise of the Marquess of Granby._--Can any of your correspondents
furnish me with the words of a song written in praise of the Marquess of
Granby, who was so distinguished as a general officer in the middle of the
last century?

I think the first verse ended with--

 "But the jewel of Grantham is Granby."

It was sung to the tune of "Over the Water to Charlie."

F. W. S.

_Venda._--Can any of your correspondents tell me what is the origin and use
of this word, as a prefix to names of places in Portugal; as it occurs, for
instance, in Venda da Agua, Venda da Pia, Venda das Monachos, &c., places
not far from Torres Vedras?

C. E. F.

_The Georgiad._--About 1814, at Cambridge, some lines under this title were
commonly attributed to the late Rev. E. Smedley (Seaton prizeman). Can any
reader supply a copy? Two stanzas run thus:

 "George B----[1] has turn'd a saint, they say:
    But who believes the tale?
  George D---- [2] might as soon turn gay!
    George C----'s[3] flirting fail!

 "George D----[4] set the Thames on fire!
    George R---- his reign renew!
  George R---- imitate his sire,
    And to his friends be true!"

AITCH.

[Footnote 1: "G. A. B.," Fellow of Trinity, a lively companion.]

[Footnote 2: Editor of the Bible.]

[Footnote 3: Lay Fellow and Tutor of Jes. Coll.; used to read Theocritus
_Græcè_ in the stage-coach.]

[Footnote 4: Author of _History of London_, or some topographical quarto.
The next may be guessed.]

_R. S. Townshend of Manchester._--I know that you have several intelligent
correspondents in the neighbourhood of Manchester, and it is probable that
they may be able to give me some information respecting a Mr. R. S.
Townshend, a person of literary taste and pursuits, who resided in that
town about the year 1730. His Common-place Book, or Diary, which has fallen
into my hands, contains numerous allusions to the leading gentry and clergy
of the neighbourhood; and more than once it mentions the well-known Dr.
Byrom, under the title of "Il Gran Maestro de Tachigraphia." Dr. Deacon, a
distinguished person among the Nonjurors, is also mentioned. The acting of
Cato by the scholars of the grammar-school on Dec. 20, 1732, is also
mentioned, with some critiques upon the performers. The elections at the
collegiate church are constantly referred to as subjects of all-absorbing
interest; there being a strong party, {180} as well in the town as in the
church, of Jacobites, and these elections being regarded as a trial of
party strength.

O. G.

"_Mala malæ malo._"--Will any of your correspondents be good enough to
complete the distich of which the following is the first line?--

 "Mala malæ malo mala pertulit omnia in orbem,"

or something like it. And, as a further favour, finish the hexameter in
this epigram?

 "Roma amor è retro perlecto nomine....
  Tendit enim retro Roma in amore Dei."

This is in the style of Audoenus. The former I have heard attributed to
Porson.

BALLIOLENSIS.

"_Dimidium Scientiæ._"--I should be glad if some one of your Baconian
annotators would direct me to that famous maxim which Coleridge ascribes to
the great philosopher, "Dimidium scientiæ, prudens quæstio," in the
original.

B. B. WOODWARD.

_Portrait Painters._--I am in possession of some good paintings, portraits,
&c., which were taken at the end of the last, and early in the present
century. Some were painted at Bath, and others at Derby: and I should feel
obliged if, in your Notes, I could obtain information as to what artists of
celebrity were known in those places from fifty to seventy years ago. I
have heard that White of Derby was an artist of high repute.

J. KNIGHT.

Aylestone.

_"An Impartial Inquiry," &c._--Who was author of--

    "An Impartial Inquiry into the true Nature of the Faith which is
    required in the Gospel as necessary to Salvation. In which is briefly
    shown upon how righteous Terms Unbelievers may become true Christians:
    and the case of the Deists is reduced to a short Issue, by Philalethes
    Cestriensis. 8vo., Lond. 1746."

Y. B. N. J.

"_As poor as Job's Turkey._"--This proverbial expression is used in the
United States, sometimes with an addition showing how poor he was, thus:
"As poor as Job's turkey, that had but one feather in his tail;" "As poor
as Job's turkey, that had to lean against a fence to gobble."

UNEDA.

_Fuss._--Perhaps some of your correspondents can favour the public with the
etymology and date of the word _fuss_.

W. W.

_Suicide encouraged in Marseilles._--In the _Lancet_ of Nov. 30, 1839, it
is stated by De Stone that anciently, in Marseilles, persons having
satisfactory reasons for committing suicide were supplied with poison at
the public expense. What authority is there for this? I should also like to
be informed what was the occasion on which a suicidal propensity in the
Milesian ladies was corrected by an appeal to their posthumous modesty?

ELSNO.

_Fabulous Bird._--Among the many quaint and beautiful conceits in Fuller,
there is one preeminently fine: in which he likens the life-long remorse of
a man who has slain another in a duel to the condition of "a bird I have
read of, which hath a face like, and yet will prey upon, a man; who, coming
to the water to drink, and finding there, by reflection, that he had killed
one like himself, pineth away by degrees, and never afterwards enjoyeth
itself."

Where did Fuller read this story? I do not recollect it in Pliny.

V. T. STERNBERG.

_Segantiorum Portus._--Has there been any locality yet found for this port,
mentioned by Ptolemy in his _History of Britain_?

PRESTONIENSIS.

_Stamping on Current Coinage._--Can any of your readers inform me whether
the current English coinage may legally be used for stamping advertisements
on?

GREGORY.

_Rhymes: Dryden._--

 "Thou breakst through forms, with as much ease
  As the French king through articles."
                 "To Sir G. Etherege."

 "Some lazy ages, lost in sleep and ease,
  No action leave to busy chronicles."
                  _Astræa Redux_, 105, 106.

And again, in _Threnodia Augustalis_, "these," ending line 410, and
"miracles," ending line 414, are made to rhyme.

Was it ever the fashion to pronounce these different terminations alike; or
does any other author of repute of that date use such rhymes?

Again, "hour" and "traveller" are made to rhyme in _Astræa Redux_, 147,
148; "stars" and "travellers," in _Religio Laici_, 1; "are" and "Lucifer,"
in _The Medal_; "men" and "sin," in _Religio Laici_, 89, 90; "convince" and
"sense," in _Ibid._ 148; _cum multis aliis_.

HARRY LEROY TEMPLE.

_The Cadenham Oak._--Can any of the correspondents of "N. & Q." inform me
if this famous old tree is still alive? It flourished for nearly three
centuries in Hampshire Forest; and during this long period was visited by
crowds of people, who, it must be confessed, entertained towards it a
religious veneration--from its peculiarity of annually shooting forth its
buds on old Christmas-day. If dead, as I suppose--for the account which I
read some years ago stated that it was fast decaying--then I would like to
know if the young tree, one of its progeny, is still flourishing in the
forest, and enjoying, from its peculiarity, the same veneration {181} which
was paid to the parent stock. Those of your readers who wish to know more
of this venerable oak, and of the trees which sprung from it, are referred
to Mr. Gilpin's able and interesting work on forest scenery, published, as
I believe, in London between sixty and seventy years ago.

W. W.

Malta.

_St. Mary's Church, Beverley._--In the memorials of Ray (_Ray Society_), at
p. 138., is a curious account of the church of St. Mary at Beverley. Would
some kind antiquary resident at Beverley, or its vicinity, compare the
present state of the church with what Ray describes it to have been in his
day; and at the same time state whether "the inhabitants of Beverley" now
"pay no toll or custom in any city, town, or port in England?"

ENIVRI.

Tredagh.

_The Rev. Joshua Marsden._--I should be glad if any of the correspondents
of "N. & Q." could furnish any particulars relative to the above gentleman.
He was the author of a most exquisite _morceau_ of about forty lines,
entitled "What is Time;" in reference to which, a literary periodical of
some thirty years ago says:

    "If our readers are half as much struck with the following solemn
    appeal, as we ourselves have been, they will not wonder at its
    insertion where poetry so rarely finds room."

BRAEMAR.

_Bentley's Examination._--I have found this anecdote of Bentley in Bishop
Sandford's _Memoirs_. Is it authentic?

    "When the great Bentley, afterwards so distinguished, was examined for
    Deacon's Orders, he expected that the Bishop would himself examine him;
    and his displeasure at what he considered neglect, he vented in such
    answers as the following:

      _Chaplain._ Quid est Fides?
      _Bentley._ Quod non vides.
      _Chaplain._ Quid est Spes?
      _Bentley._ Quod non habes.
      _Chaplain._ Quid est Charitas?
      _Bentley._ Maxima raritas."

Are not these rhymes older than Bentley?

W. FRASER.

_Derivation of "Lowbell."_--I see MR. STERNBERG, in his "Dialect and
Folk-lore of Northamptonshire," gives a new explanation of the puzzling
word _lowbell_, in Beaumont and Fletcher's _Woman's Prize_, Act I. Sc. 3.
It appears that Northamptonshire peasants have a way of their own for
punishing offenders against good morals:

    "On the first appearance of the culprit in 'strit,' or on 'grin,' the
    villagers rise _en masse_, and greet him with a terrible din of tin
    pots and kettles, &c.; and, amidst the hooting and vociferation of the
    multitude, he is generally compelled to seek shelter by flight. This is
    called 'lowbelling,' and the actors are termed 'lowbells,' or
    'lowbellers,' forming a tolerable explanation of the _lowbell_ in
    Beaumont and Fletcher's _Woman's Prize_, Act I. Sc. 3., which has so
    long mystified the commentators:

     '_Petru._ If you can carry't so, 'tis very well.
      _Bian._ No, you shall carry it, Sir.
      _Petru._ Peace, gentle _Lowbell_.'"

MR. STERNBERG derives it from the Anglo-Saxon _lowian_, past participle of
the Anglo-Saxon _lowian_, and the verb _bellan_. This would seem
satisfactory; but I should like to know whether the word is current
anywhere else besides Northamptonshire.

H. T. W.

_Meaning of Assassin._--Can any reader of the "N. & Q." inform me of the
correct meaning of the word "assassin?" The old story of the nation of the
assassins, under their prince the "Old Man of the Mountain," I reject as
absurd, although Gibbon adopts it. I have my own idea, which agrees with
Mr. Lane in his account of the modern Egyptians, who derives it from the
Arabic word "_Hushhusheen_, one drunk with hemp." M. Volney says it comes
from the Arabic "_Hass_, to kill, or lie in ambush to kill." Which of all
these derivations is correct?

MUHAMMED.

A. and N. Club, St. James's Square.

_Punishment for exercising the Roman Catholic Religion._--In Burton's
_Narratives from Criminal Trials in Scotland_, vol. ii. p. 168., I find the
following statement:

    "The latest case of punishment under the act is supposed to have
    occurred in 1759, when Neil McFie was banished by the circuit court of
    Inverness, for being 'held and reputed a Popish priest.' Later
    instances might be adduced of punishment for exercising the Roman
    Catholic religion in England."

Can any of your readers inform me of the date of the last instance in
England, and where it is stated?

S. Y.

_Hogarth's Pictures._--I have a catalogue of the pictures and prints, the
property of the late Mrs. Hogarth deceased, which were sold by Mr.
Greenwood on April 24th, 1790. Under the head "Pictures by Mr. Hogarth," I
see in Lot 44.: "The heads of six servants of Mr. Hogarth's family." Can
any of your numerous readers inform me where this picture is placed, or say
in what manner the heads are grouped?

W. D. HAGGARD.

_Lines in a Snuff-box._--The following lines were recently found in a metal
(probably silver) snuff-box, which had lain for many years undiscovered in
a plate chest. They are engraved {182} _inside_, on the bottom of the box,
and are supposed to be a saying of Cardinal Mazarin. Can any of your
correspondents give any account of them, and where they are to be found?
They are as follow, _verbatim et literatim_, punctuation included:

 "Time and I, to any Two
  Chance & I to time and you
            1750"

R. BLAKISTON.

Ashington Rectory, Sussex.

_Rosa Mystica._--Where is information to be found on the subject of the
_Rosa Mystica_; and what is the date of its institution?

D. S. A.

_Old-Shoe throwing at Weddings._--Can any of your readers inform me what is
the origin of the custom of throwing an old shoe over the bride and
bridegroom upon their leaving the church, or the "maison paternelle" after
their wedding?

This ceremony, though peculiar as I believe to Scotland and our northern
counties, has lately been adopted at our aristocratic marriages in London,
and more should be known of its history.

BRAYBROOKE.

_Herbé's "Costumes Français."_--The valuable work by M. Herbé, _Costumes
Français; Civiles, Militaires et Religieux_, 4to. Paris, is doubtless well
known to your readers.

I have heard that after its publication sundry persons, judging perhaps
from the eccentricity of many of the costumes, doubted their accuracy, and
even considered them the result of M. Herbé's fancy; and that that
gentleman, annoyed at the imputation, subsequently published another work
citing his authorities.

Query, Can any one verify this statement? and if true, inform me of the
title of this latter work; and whether it is to be found in any library in
this country, and where?

PICTOR.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_Humphry Smith_ (Vol. vii., p. 80.).--Having heard of a work of his, giving
an account of the persecution in his time, will you or one of your
contributors be so good as furnish a list of the titles of his works; with
a note naming where they may be met with for inspection?

GLYWYSIG.

    [The first two in the following list of the works of Humphry Smith, the
    Quaker, are in the British Museum; the remainder are in the Bodleian:
    1. A Sad and Mournful Lamentation for the People of these Nations, but
    especially for the Priests and Leaders of them, 4to. 1660. 2.
    Meditations of an Humble Heart, 4to. 3. Something further laid open of
    the Cruel Persecution of the People called Quakers, by the Magistrates
    and People of Evesham, 4to. 1656. 4. For the Honour of the King, and
    the great advancing thereof (amongst men) over all nations in the
    world, in some proposals tending thereunto; stated in six particulars,
    4to. 1661. 5. Sound Things Asserted in the King's own words, from late
    experience, from Scripture truth, and according to reason and equity,
    offered in meekness and goodwill unto the consideration of all Kings,
    Lords, Counsellors, &c., 4to. 1662. 6. Something in Reply to Edmund
    Skipp's book, which he calles "The World's Wonder, or the Quaker's
    Blazing Starre," at the end of an Answer to Edmund Skipp's book by R.
    F. Watt, in his _Bibliotheca_, has confounded Smith the Quaker with
    Humphry Smith, Vicar of Tounstal and St. Saviour's, Dartmouth.]

_Meaning and Etymology of "Conyngers" or "Connigries."_--In the preamble to
the statute 13 Rich. II. c. 13., entitled "None shall hunt but they which
have a sufficient living," this word occurs; and I am totally at a loss as
to its meaning. The passage is--

    "Vont chaceants es parkes, garennes et conyngers des seignurs et
    autres;"

which, in Pickering's edition of the _Statutes at Large_, is translated:

    "They go hunting in parks, warrens, and connigries of lords and
    others."

Would any reader of "N. & Q." kindly enlighten me on the subject?

A. W.

Kilburn.

    [Blount explains _Coningeria_ as a coney-borough, or warren of conies.
    "Item dicunt, quod idem Dominus potest capere in duabus _coningeriis_,
    quas habet infra Insulam de Vecta, 100 cuniculos per annum, et valet
    quilibet cuniculos 2d." Inq. de anno 47 Hen. III., n. 32.]

_Letters U, V, W, and St. Ives_ (Vol. vii., p. 39.).--Is St. Ives by any
possibility connected with St. Jue's, St. Jew's, or St. Jude's? Jve's and
Iue's must have been undistinguishable in the ancient confusion of J and I,
V and U. If I am here displaying ignorance, I ask, What is the legend of
St. Ives?

W. FRASER.

Tor-Mohun.

    [St. Ives is named from Iä, who was one of the missionary band that
    accompanied St. Kiaran, alias Piran, from Ireland in the fifth century.
    The Cornish have consecrated almost all their towns to the memory of
    these Irish saints: "witness," says Camden, "St. Burian, St. Ives, St.
    Columb, St. Mewan, St. Erben, St. Eval, St. Wenn, and St. Enedor." It
    appears that these missionaries landed in Cornwall at Pendinas,
    hill-head, now called St. Ives; for in the Legend of St. Ives,
    contained in _Nova Legenda Angliæ_, we read that "Tewdor was king at
    that time, and had a palace at Pendinas; and that Dinan, a greate lord
    of Cornwall, at the request of St. Iä, built a church at the same
    place." See Butler's _Lives_, March 5th; and Haslam's _Perranzabuloe_,
    p. 55.]

{183}

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

THE ORKNEY ISLANDS IN PAWN.

(Vol. vii., p. 105.)

It gives me much pleasure to be enabled to inform your correspondent
KIRKWALLENSIS that there is no fear of our losing these islands in the
manner suggested by him, they having been renounced by Denmark nearly four
hundred years ago, as will be seen from the following sketch.

The Orkneys were taken from the Picts about A.D. 838, by Kenneth II., king
of Scotland, to which kingdom they were attached until 1099, when Donald
VIII., surnamed Bane, brother to Malcolm Canmore, usurped the crown, to the
prejudice of his nephews Edgar, Alexander, and David; and requiring
assistance to maintain his position, he applied to Magnus, king of Norway,
to whom, says Skene, "for help and supply he gave all the isles of Scotland
(Camden says the Orkneys only), where, through and for other causes, many
bloody battles were fought, until the battle of Larges, 3rd August, 1260,
in the time of Alexander III. of Scotland, and Acho, king of Norway." The
Scots proving victorious, Magnus of Norway, son and successor of Acho, made
peace with Alexander, and renounced and discharged all right and title
which he or his successors had, or might have or pretend, to the isles of
Scotland, the king of Scotland paying therefor yearly to the said Magnus
and his successors one hundred marks of sterling money. This contract was
confirmed in 1312 by Haquin V. of Norway and Robert I. of Scotland. In 1426
Eric X. of Denmark renewed with James I. of Scotland these ancient
treaties, particularly with regard to the Western Isles; the pension or
annuity having been long omitted to be paid, Eric now freely gave it up to
James; and thus, in appearance, the Orkneys were finally confirmed to
Scotland; but virtually it was not so until 1468, when, says Skene, "at
last the said annual, with all the arrearages and by-runs thereof, was
discharged and renounced _simpliciter_, in the contract of marriage between
King James III. and Margaret, daughter of Christian I., king of Norway,
Denmark, and Sweden, on the 8th of September, 1468; which discharge is not
only ratified, but renewed thereafter by the said king, on the 12th May,
1469. It appears that James III., on the 24th February, 1483, commanded his
ambassador sent to the Pope to desire a confirmation of the said perpetual
renunciation and discharge of the contribution of the Isles."

According to Dr. Wallace's account (1700), King Christian agreed that the
isles of Orkney and Zetland should remain in the possession of King James
and his successors, as the Princess Margaret's dower, until either King
Christian or his successors should pay to King James or his successors the
sum of fifty thousand florins of the Rhine; but in the year following,
hearing of his daughter's delivery of a prince at Edinburgh, he "for joy
thereof renounced for ever to the crown of Scotland all right or claim to
the said isles."

BROCTUNA.

Bury, Lancashire.

KIRKWALLENSIS seems to have been led into an error respecting the Orkneys.
It is true that Orkney and Shetland belonged to the crown of Norway, to
which the Scottish family of St. Clair, or Sinclair, rendered military
service for the earldom. It was not, however, to an English king, but to
James III. of Scotland that Christian gave the hand of "the Maid of
Norway." In the marriage preliminaries the latter thus stipulates
respecting the dower:--"Rex cedit sexaginta aureorum Rhenensium
[florenorum] millia, ejus summæ priusquam è Danæ regno sponsa digrediatur
numeraturus aureorum decem millia, quod verò reliquum esset supplerent
insulæ regni Norvegici, jam memoratæ, _Orcades_, una cum jurisdictione ac
cæteris eodem pertinentibus, hac tamen lege, ut insulas eas, eousque teneat
Scotiæ Rex sub firma _hypotheca_ donec vel ipse, vel ejus heredes, Daniæ ac
Norvegiæ Reges, æqua vicissim portione easdem redimant." This article was
afterwards embodied in the marriage contract:--"Et terræ insularum Orchaden
Regi nostro Jacobo _impignoratæ, ad Norvegiæ reges revertentur_," &c. Both
documents are preserved in Torfæus (_Orcades_, pp. 188--191.). Mr. Auker's
discovery of the original is, however, an interesting circumstance, as it
would seem that the marriage in question was but the result of an attempt
to settle amicably an ancient dispute respecting the sovereignty of the
Hebrides--"vetus controversia de Hæbudis et Mannia magnis utriusque populi
cladibus agitata"--which the king of France, as umpire, had been unable to
pronounce upon, in consequence of the loss or concealment of the original
instruments.

W. G. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PASSAGE IN KING HENRY VIII., ACT III. SC. 2.

(Vol. vii., pp. 5. 111.)

Having no desire to enter into unnecessary controversy, I do not often
reply to objections made to my conjectural emendations of passages in
Shakspeare; but on the present occasion I think it incumbent on me to
appeal to the common sense of those who take interest in such matters, by
merely placing in juxta-position the reading I have proposed, and that of
your Leeds correspondent, and thus leave it to their impartial decision
without fear of the result. It may be necessary, as your correspondent has
adverted to {184} what precedes, to give the passage as it stands in the
folio at some length. Wolsey having said--

                 "For your great Graces
  Heap'd upon me (poore Undeserver) I
  Can nothing offer but my Allegiant thankes,
  My Prayres to heaven for you; my Loyaltie
  Which ever ha's, and ever shall be growing
  Till death (that Winter) kill it."

The King replies:

 "Fairely answer'd:
  A Loyal, and obedient Subject is
  Therein illustrated, the Honor of it
  Does pay the Act of it, as i'th' contrary
  The fowlenesse is the punishment. I presume
  That as my hand ha's open'd Bounty to you,
  My heart dropt Love, my powre rain'd Honor, more
  On you, then any: So your Hand, and Heart,
  Your Braine, and every Function of your power,
  Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
  As 'twer in Love's particular, be more
  To me your Friend, then any."

Wolsey rejoins:

                         "I do professe
  That for your Highnesse good, I ever labour'd
  More then mine owne: that am, haue, and will be
  (Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
  And throw it from their Soule, though perils did
  Abound, as thicke as thought could make 'em, and
  Appeare in formes more horrid) yet my Duty,
  As doth a Rocke against the chiding Flood,
  Should the approach of this wilde River breake,
  And stand unshaken yours."

I read:

                         "I do profess
  That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
  More than mine own: that _I'm true_, and will be,
  Though all the world should lack their duty to you,
  And throw it from their soul: though perils did
  Abound, as thick as thought could make them, and
  Appear in forms more horrid; yet my duty
  (As doth a rock against the chiding flood)
  Should the approach of this wild river break,
  And stand unshaken yours."

Your Leeds correspondent would read:

                         "I do profess
  That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
  More than mine own.--_That_, am _I_, have, and will be,
  Though all the world should crack their duty to you
  And throw it from their soul," &c.

For his arguments I must refer to his note (p. 111. _antè_), merely
observing that I cannot conceive how any alteration in the punctuation of
the King's speech could connect it with this! Making _That_ emphatic helps
nothing, as there is no antecedent to which it can refer; and if "we can by
no means part with _have_," we must interpolate _been_ after it to make it
any way intelligible, to the marring of the verse.

With regard to the substitution of _lack_ for _crack_ in my former note, it
should be recollected that I then said "I do not insist upon this." We
might, however, substitute _slack_, if change should be deemed necessary,
and it would be still nearer in form to the suspected word.

I may safely leave the _palpable_ error in _As You Like It_ to the decision
of common sense.

As I am dealing with corrections in the play of _King Henry VIII._, I may
take occasion to observe that MR. COLLIER, in his recent supplemental
volume of _Notes and Emendations_, has, I have no doubt unwittingly, stated
that a passage, Act IV. Sc. 2., has been absurdly pointed, "over and over
again, from the year 1623 to our own day." Whereas it will be found
corrected, exactly as it stands in his second folio, in the edition I gave
of Shakspeare in 1826, with a note adverting to the absurdity of the old
pointing. I may further add, that the first instance MR. COLLIER gives in
his preface of the corrections in his folio, is in the same predicament. He
has stated that the reading of "Aristotle's _cheeks_" for "Aristotle's
_ethics_," in the first scene of the _Taming of the Shrew_, "has been the
invariable text from the first publication in 1623 until our own day;" when
the fact is, that it stands properly corrected in my edition in 1826, with
the following note:

    "Blackstone suggests that we should read _ethics_, and the sense seems
    to require it; I have therefore admitted it into the text."

It is possible that MR. COLLIER may have never looked into my edition of
the poet, and I may honestly say that I regret it, not on my own account
but on his, for I think, had he consulted it, his own would not have been
the worse for it.

S. W. SINGER.

Manor Place, South Lambeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINIATURE RING OF CHARLES I.

(Vol. vi., p. 578.)

By the courtesy of W. K. Rogers, Esq. (in whose possession it is), I am
enabled to account for another of these interesting and invaluable relics;
one of the four said to have been presented by the Martyr prior to his
execution.

    "ROGERS OF LOTA.

    This family was early remarkable for its loyalty and attachment to the
    Crown; a ring is still preserved as an heir-loom, which was presented
    to its ancestor by King Charles I. during his misfortunes."--Burke's
    _Commoners of Great Britain and Ireland_.

Robert Rogers of Lota received extensive grants of land from Charles II.,
which upon the accession of James II. were confirmed to him by letters
patent. He was Mayor of Cork, 1680, M. P. for that city 1692, and again
1695. In the body of his will, bearing date 1690, and registered in the
Record Court, Dublin, occurs the following {185} paragraph, embraced by
brackets, as if he wished to convey forcibly his appreciation of the value
of the relic:

    ["And I also bequeath to Noblett Rogers the miniature portrait-ring of
    the martyr Charles I., given by that monarch to my ancestor previous to
    his execution; and I particularly desire that it may be preserved in
    the name and family."]

The miniature, which is beautifully painted in enamel, and said to be by
Vandyke, has been reset in a tasteful and appropriate style; and it is in
this state that I have seen it. But Mr. Rogers informs me that its original
setting and inscriptions exactly corresponded with those of the ring in the
possession of the Misses Pigott, described in Hulbert's _History of Salop_;
and the same tradition exists in the family as to its having been _one of
four_ presented by Charles to certain of his friends or followers. There
can be little question, therefore, as to the genuineness of both these
rings. With regard to the portrait being the work of Vandyke, Mr. R. writes
to me--

    "I know not on what authority it is stated, but I believe there is not
    a family of old standing in the county Cork in which tradition has not
    assigned its execution to that master; and certainly in Rome, where it
    was much admired, the artists, when questioned 'Whose style?'
    frequently answered, 'Vandyke.'"

Portraits by Vandyke in enamel, it is said, are known to be in existence.
Whether so renowned a master would have submitted to the wearisome and
laborious operation of repeating a number of works so minute, even for a
crowned head, seems to admit of a doubt; yet there is no difficulty in
imagining him to have superintended the progress of the artist employed to
copy his own portrait of Charles, and even to have bestowed some finishing
touches upon it.

I have lately seen a ring with a portrait of Charles on ivory, in coarse
and very inferior style, and in a plain gold setting. It is in the
possession of a gentleman in whose family it has continued for several
generations. Doubtless many such memorials of their murdered king were worn
at the time by his devoted partizans, and may yet be in existence.

C. LEY.

Bere Regis.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHANTRY CHAPELS.

(Vol. vi., p. 223.)

At the Derby Congress of the British Archæological Association, the Duke of
Rutland exhibited a document of which the following notice by Mr. H. N.
Black is made in the Journal of their _Transactions_ (vol. for 1851, p.
297.):

    "A bull of Pope Alexander IV., dated at Viterbo, 2 id. Mar., anno 4,
    viz., 14 March, 1258. It is addressed to the Bishop of Coventry,
    setting forth that Richard de Herthull lived in a place remote from the
    mother church, which at some seasons was inaccessible; that he already
    had a chapel on his own land, and desired to have a chaplain to serve
    therein, for whom he was prepared to provide fit support. The matter
    was therefore referred to his diocesan, to grant license accordingly if
    he should deem it expedient. The leaden seal is yet attached to this
    beautiful little document."

Then follow the words of the document in Latin.

Herthull has been corrupted into _Hartle_: and on the moor of this name a
chapel still remains, although of much later date than that mentioned in
the above-named document; traces of an earlier erection are however still
visible in a portion of the present foundations. It is now used as a barn.
Distant from this about two miles, at Meadow Place, near Yolgrave, is
another chapel, now used for a similar purpose as the foregoing. In this,
the jambs of all the windows still remain; the east window is a very large
one.

The above is not intended to answer W. H. K.'s Query, but rather as a note
in connexion with it.

T. N. B.

Chester.

In the North Riding of Yorkshire, celebrated for its monasteries, &c., were
many chantry chapels, both in the hamlets, and in the rural situations
apart from them. Gill's _Vallis Eboracensis_ contains an account of
several; among the rest may be noticed one at Newton Grange. This chapel,
which is now used for agricultural purposes, is preserved, by request of
its noble owner Lord Feversham, in its primitive form. It stands in a
meadow field, at some distance from the ruins of the ancient seat of the
Cholmeleys, and was used as a burial chantry, but not exclusively so. In
1820 a vault was discovered beneath the floor; and five coffins were
removed to Oswald Kirk churchyard, and re-interred there. In order to
preserve the chapel from ruin, Lady Cholmeley bequeathed one pound per
annum to the Rector of Ampleforth for preaching a sermon annually therein;
but the ruinous state of the building at that time caused the removal of
the pulpit, and the sermon is preached in the church at Oswald Kirk.

The _Valor Ecclesiasticus_ contains the records of dissolved chantries.

J. E. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC NOTES AND QUERIES.

_The Collodion Process._--I have been much pleased with the directions
given by DR. DIAMOND in your columns for the production of collodion
positives; but they have been hitherto unaccompanied by any reference to
the causes of those numerous failures that occur in this delicate process,
and which are so disheartening to {186} beginners. I will just enumerate a
few of the appearances with which I have been troubled, and trust that they
may elicit from other operators an account of some of their instructive
failures. I will premise, as an answer to a former Query respecting the
cost and description of lenses, that I obtained mine of Mr. Goddard, now of
Jesse Cottage, Witton, Middlesex. They are combination-lenses, two inches
and a quarter in diameter (achromatic); the front lens can be used singly
for views, producing a picture nearly seven inches square, but when
combined covering four inches. For these, with brass mounting, I paid less
than 3l.: a single lens, the same diameter, would be about 1l. They work to
focus, cover flat, and define well, producing pictures equal to the most
expensive.

I have usually preferred Mr. Archer's collodion, as the most certain and
cleanest. The silver bath is composed of thirty grains nitrate of silver
and two drops of nitric acid to each ounce of distilled water. An even film
may be obtained by the following means:--Represent the plate of glass by
the following figure:

  +--------------------+
  | 1                3 |
  |                    |
  |                    |
  | 2                4 |
  +--------------------+

Hold the plate with the left hand at 1, pour a body of collodion in the
centre: tilt towards 1 (being careful not to let it touch the thumb),
incline towards 2, run into 3, and pour off at 4: then hold the plate
vertically (resting the corner 4 on the neck of the collodion bottle) to
drain: incline it first to the right and then to the left, repeating this
several times until the ridges are removed. By these means an even film may
be produced, without a thick ridge, from 2 to 4. The time it may be left
before plunging into the silver bath will depend on the temperature (about
half a minute). Dip evenly into the bath, lifting up and down to allow of
the evaporation of the ether: the film will also saturate more rapidly.
When the greasy appearance is gone, it is ready for the camera. Sometimes
the film is nearly transparent and bluish, not having sufficient iodide of
silver; or it may contain too much iodide, the greater part flaking off in
the bath, leaving the collodion with very little, and that patchy; or from
being placed in the bath too quick, the lower corner still present a
reticulated appearance, which of course renders it useless.

Having exposed the plate the necessary time, the next step is the
development. The solution I usually employ is prepared with protosulphate
of iron. I do not find distilled water absolutely necessary (during the
summer months I fancied the tones were improved by using ordinary water,
perhaps from containing a little lime), and the acetate acid is not
glacial, but a description termed Beaufoy's, much less expensive. The
proportions are--

  Water                     2 ounces.
  Acetic acid               1 drachm.
  Protosulphate of iron     8 grains.
  Nitric acid               2 drops.

Mix the water and acetic acid first; then dissolve the iron; and, lastly,
add the nitric acid, which, by varying the quantity, produces different
effects. On pouring the solution over the plate, there is sometimes a
difficulty experienced in causing it to flow evenly. Sometimes a little
more acetic acid in the developing solution, or, if the plate has been out
of the bath some time, redipping it, will prevent this; but if this does
not remove it, and the resulting picture is hard and unpleasant in tone, a
new bath is necessary. For positives, the resulting picture is more
pleasing and delicate by using the developing agent rather weak. After it
has remained on sufficiently long to bring out the image, the undecomposed
iodide is to be removed by hyposulphite of soda. I always use the same
solution, pouring it on and off until exhausted. Having sufficiently
washed, the picture may perhaps appear with many black spots, this may in
future be obviated by adding a little alcohol to the collodion:--or it may
be covered with white spots; in that case the collodion requires settling,
or rapidly filtrating through an old piece of loose silk. Sometimes it will
look all black and white (a common fault with collodion positives), without
middle tints: by adding a little more acetic acid, or an extra drop of
nitric acid, to the developing solution, or the addition of a few drops of
ordinary pyrogallic solution, this disagreeable effect may be overcome. In
taking portraits, it is often caused by having the sitter placed with too
much front light. Then, again, the should-be whites of the picture may be
dull and greenish by reflected, and red by transmitted, light. This effect
I generally find remedied by putting less nitric acid in the developing
solution. During the development, by watching the colour (by holding a
piece of white paper underneath), this red tendency may be observed; in
that case the drawing may be preserved by leaving the plate for about a
minute after pouring the developing agent off, and before removing the
iodide. Some change appears to take place by its contact with the air; it
gradually gets more opaque, and when finished, though not so white as many,
yet presenting an extremely rich brownish-yellow tone.

During the late dull weather, many of my plates have shown a tendency to an
uniform leaden-looking deposit, destroying the blacks of the picture. A
little more nitric acid in the bath will sometimes overcome this, but I
have not yet found a sufficient remedy. During the summer months I was in
the habit of using double the quantity of {187} iron I have stated,
diluting the solution more; then was compelled to diminish the quantity to
twelve grains, and now I use eight. I have tried the proportions
recommended by French photographers, but they seem to contain too large a
proportion of iron. I prefer the use of the protosulphate to the
protonitrate of iron from its cheapness, and the ease with which it is made
up. It will also keep for any length of time, rather improving than
otherwise.

I back with liquid jet from Suggitt, opposite the House of Correction,
Mount Pleasant, Clerkenwell. It dries rapidly, and brightens the
appearance.

G. H. P.

_Mr. Weld Taylor's Iodizing Process._--The process I sent to your columns
last month, for iodizing paper, is applicable _only_ to the paper of Canson
Frères; and I may further explain, that if the solution does not answer
well, it may be washed over again with a solution of iodide of potassa only
of the usual strength, and then set on a dish of slightly-acidulated water,
to assist the separation and set free the potash. To make the matter clear
to MR. SHADBOLT, I may observe, to one who is in the habit of iodizing
paper, a considerable amount of the passage relating to cyanide of potassa
could not be misunderstood; the nitrate of silver being added to the iodide
of potassa, forms at once a precipitate which it is required to take up.
The old double iodide says, add iodide of potassa till it does so, and it
will do so; but the cyanide of potassa does it much better, and the
cyanogen is lost as the paper dries, otherwise it would take no image at
all. In the process I gave it merely requires an equivalent, "and cyanide
of potassa is always of use in many of these processes." That equivalent is
of course best arrived at by a solution, as, if the cyanide of potassa were
added in the lump, it would be lost or be in excess.

Further, I may enlighten MR. SHADBOLT by assuring him that the iodizing
paper with the ammonio-nitrate of silver, which I never saw published yet,
is the best way; and I may confidently assert that the better ways of
iodizing papers are not published at all. It is a tedious process to do,
but it is as certain as taking a positive from a negative. At present I
have not space to give my way of doing it. I may also add, that it will not
answer with all papers. In fact, all samples of paper require some
modification of the process, as the chemicals are different in the various
modes of bleaching paper by different manufacturers. The ammonio-nitrate is
perfect with Whatman's paper; indeed it is a subject of much regret, that
this maker has not turned out a paper as thin and hard as the Canson
Frères. The latter gentlemen have added some chemical, probably iodine, to
their paper, which renders it almost impossible to iodize it at all. I
believe it to be iodine, because the paper becomes perfectly black over
_free_ iodine, which no English paper will do. At all events, this paper is
very uncertain, although it has a quality in appearance that is unsurpassed
by any other.

WELD TAYLOR.

7. Conduit Street West, Bayswater.

_Sir William Newton's Process: Further Explanations._--In reply to your
correspondent F. MAXWELL LYTE, who is desirous of knowing my motive for
washing the paper over with chloride of barium previous to iodizing--

In the first place, I find that it appears to give strength to the paper.

Secondly, that the action in the camera is better and more certain.

Thirdly, it keeps cleaner in the bringing-out process, thereby allowing a
longer time for a more complete development.

Fourthly, I have never found any _solarizing_ take place since I have used
it (about three years); and, fifthly, I find that it keeps longer and
better after it is excited for the camera.

From the observations which I have made since I have made use of chloride
of barium, I conclude that it has the effect of _destroying_ any injurious
properties which may be in the paper, and more especially with respect to
the SIZE; and besides which, when combined with iodide of silver, greater
intensity is obtained in the negative.

I have occasionally prepared paper without chloride of barium, but I have
always found (except for positives) that I could not rely upon it with the
same degree of certainty. I need scarcely add that throughout the whole of
this process the greatest care and attention is required, and that the
water should be constantly agitated while the paper is in it, and that the
water should be once changed.

W. J. NEWTON.

6. Argyle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Lady Nevell's Music-book_ (Vol. vii., p. 59.).--To transpose the six-line
staves of old music into the five-line staves of modern notation, it is
only necessary to treat the lowest line of the treble, and the highest line
of the bass, as ledger lines. The five remaining will correspond with the
five now in use.

I should feel greatly obliged to your correspondent L. B. L. for a sight of
his Virginal Book, as it appears to be an exact transcript of the one in
DR. RIMBAULT'S possession.

WM. CHAPPELL.

201. Regent Street.

_Tuch_ (Vol. vii., p. 82.).--ALPHAGE suggests that the "touchstone" had its
name because "a musical sound may be produced by touching it {188} sharply
with a stick." I think this is an error, and that it owes its name to its
use in the assay of gold and silver. We find this application of it
described in a work (now scarce) published in 1677, under the title of _A
Touchstone for Gold and Silver Wares_. The author, after describing the
qualities of a good touchstone, observes (p. 36.):

    "The way to make a true touch on the touch-stone is thus: When your
    touch-stone is very clean ... your silver being filed ... rub it
    steadily, and very hard, on the stone ... until the place of the stone
    whereon you rub be like the metal itself ... wet all the toucht places
    with your tongue, and it will show itself in its own countenance."

And that the touchstone was used in this connexion at a much earlier period
is obvious from the language of the ancient statutes. The 28 Edward I.,
stat. 3. cap. 20., requires all gold and silver wares to be "of good and
true allay, that is to say, gold of a certain _touch_." And the word occurs
in the same sense in other statutes.

A. R.

Birmingham.

The error of Coleridge, alluded to by your correspondent ALPHAGE, is
certainly not a little singular, especially as the word, in the sense of
stone or marble, occurs in Ben Jonson, Drayton, and Sir John Harrington,
and there is a good article on the word in Nares's _Glossary_. I must,
however, altogether dissent from your correspondent's statement that the
reason for the name of Touchstone is, that a musical sound may be produced
by touching it sharply with a stick, and agree with Nares that it obtained
its name from being used as a test for gold. See a very interesting article
on Assay Marks by Mr. Octavius Morgan (_Archæological Journal_, ix. 127.),
from which it appears that, for the trial of gold, touch-needles were
applied to the touchstone.

THOMPSON COOPER.

Cambridge.

_Eva, Princess of Leinster_ (Vol. vi., p. 388.).--O'Haloran, in his
_History of Ireland_, says:

    In 1168, Dermot Mac Murchad, King of Leinster, having carried away
    Dearbhorgie, wife of O'Ruark, prince of Breffin, was driven from his
    kingdom by the husband, assisted by the lady's father, the King of
    Meath.

    "He arrived at Bristol, having obtained letters patent of Henry II. for
    any of the king's subjects to assist him against his enemies: but no
    one in Bristol was found able or willing to undertake such expedition,
    when Strongbow, Earl of Pembroke, who resided at Chepstow Castle,
    offered his assistance (Seyer's _Memoirs of Bristol_); and, in 1169,
    entered Ireland with two hundred knights and others, to the number of
    1000. The object being effected, Strongbow was united to Eva, the
    daughter of Dermot; and, at that prince's death, became seised of
    Leinster."

By this it appears, that Dermot eloped with the lady in 1168; and, as
Strongbow was united to Eva the following year, Eva consequently could not
have been the offspring of that connexion. Who her mother was, I am unable
to find out.

C. H.

_Whipping Post_ (Vol. vi., p. 388.).--These mementos of the salutary mode
of punishment practised by our forefathers, are of frequent occurrence. I
have met with them in country villages in all parts of England with which I
am acquainted. They generally accompany that place of "durance vile," the
stocks; and occasionally have accommodation for two persons, I suppose to
suit the various sizes of offenders.

T. H. KERSLEY, B.A.

Audlem, Cheshire.

_The Dodo_ (Vol. vii., p. 32.).--The progress of the interesting inquiry in
"N. & Q." regarding the Dodo, induces me to communicate the fact, that
amongst the architectural decorations of the palace of the ancient Kings of
Kandy, in Ceylon (now inhabited by the governor, Reginald C. Buller, Esq.),
there occur frequent and numerous representations of a bird, which in every
particular of shape is identical with the extinct fowl of Mauritius. What
is more curious is, that the natives were familiar with the figure as that
of "the sacred bird," which is common on the Buddhist monuments throughout
the island; but Ceylon possesses no existing species at all resembling the
Dodo. I have a drawing copied from the figures in the Kandy palace; but as
your publication does not admit of engraved illustration, I do not send it.

J. EMERSON TENNENT.

Some weeks ago, on looking over a box of old Kentish deeds and papers, P.
C. S. S. found a lease, signed by his ancestor Sir John Fineux, on the 6th
of October, 1522, to which is affixed a seal in perfect preservation,
bearing what P. C. S. S. has hitherto erroneously supposed to be the crest
of the Fineux family, viz. an eagle displayed. He is now, however, indebted
to your correspondent (Vol. vi., p. 83.) for the conviction that it must be
a Dodo, and that it can represent nothing else. For it is of "unwieldy
form," has "disproportionate wings," and is altogether of a "clumsy
figure." P. C. S. S. has till now believed that the uncouth appearance of
the bird was owing to the want of skill in the artist. But it is now clear
that it must undoubtedly be a Dodo; and P. C. S. S. will henceforward live,
_sibi carior_, in the certainty that the chief justice of England temp.
Henry VIII., from whom he has the honour to descend, bore a "veritable
Dodo" as his crest.

P. C. S. S. takes this occasion of adverting to some Queries which appeared
a few months ago, respecting serjeants' rings. He has in his {189}
possession one of those given by Sir John Fineux on his assumption of the
coif. The motto is, "Suæ quisque fortunæ faber."

P. C. S. S.

_"Then comes the reckoning," &c._ (Vol. v., p. 585.).--These two lines are
to be found in Act II. Sc. 9. of the tragi-comi-pastoral, _The What D'ye
Call It_, by John Gay, author of the _Beggar's Opera_, _Fables_, &c. The
correct quotation is:

 "So comes a reck'ning when the banquet's o'er,
  The dreadful reck'ning, and men smile no more."

S. WMSON.

_Sir J. Covert, not Govett_ (Vol. vii., p. 85.).--QUÆRO may be perfectly
assured that there never was a baronet of the name of Govett, nor a member
of parliament so called. P. C. S. S. is confident that the individual to
whom QUÆRO refers, as having sat in the second parliament of Charles II.,
must have been Sir John Covert, Baronet, who was member for Horsham. The
misnomer would not be surprising in a list which contains such names as
Nosrooth for Noseworthy, Cowshop for Courthope, Meestry for Masters, and
Grubbaminton and Zerve for Heaven knows what!

P. C. S. S.

_Chatterton_ (Vol. vii., pp. 14. 138.).--I feel very much obliged to J. M.
G. for his answer to my question. May I ask if he has any other documents
or information which would throw light on the origin and history of the
Rowley poems? The inquiry has interested me for more than forty years, and
I have long been about as fully convinced that Chatterton did not write the
poems, as that I did not write them myself. For any help towards finding
out who _did_ write them, I should be very thankful.

N. B.

_Tennyson_ (Vol. vii., p. 84.).--The following brief Note from _Democritus
in London; with the Mad Pranks and Comical Conceits of Motley and Robin
Good-Fellow_, is a reply to the _first_ Query of H. J. J.:

 "Ye may no see, for peeping flowers, the grasse."
                          _George Peele._

 "You scarce could see the grass for flowers."
                          _Alfred Tennyson._

A SUBSCRIBER.

Query 2. Is not the Latin song Catullus XLV. (edit. Doering), where we find
(v. 8.):

 "Amor, _sinistram_ ut ante,
  _Dextram sternuit approbationem?_"

P. J. F. GANTILLON, B.A.

_Llandudno on the Great Orme's Head_ (Vol. v., pp. 175. 235. 305.).--I am
surprised that the twice-repeated Query of your correspondent L. G. T. of
Lichfield yet remains unanswered. "The cavern" he refers to is that called
Llech, and concerning which he has fallen into several errors. The cavern,
so far from having been lately discovered, has been known for generations
past, and is yearly visited by hundreds of strangers. If the entrance has
been made as private and inaccessible as possible, there is nobody to blame
but nature and time; for the ancient approach was from the summit of the
cliff by means of a flight of stone and grass steps, of which traces still
remain connected with an old stone wall. The cave is easily descried from
the sea-shore below, whence it can be reached by the aid of a common
ladder. The shape is not heptagonal, as stated by L. G. T.; but is
semi-octagonal, terminated in front by two square columns of freestone. The
front and seats are in perfect preservation; but of the stone table, which
many years ago occupied the centre, the pedestal only remains. The font, or
rather stone basin, is supplied by a spring of most delicious water, which,
at certain seasons, flows in copious quantities into an artificial bath
excavated in the rock below. It is said that the cave was fitted up as a
grotto, or pleasure-house, by some ancestors of the Mostyn family; and this
is all that is known about it. I have measured the principal dimensions,
and find the quantities given by L. G. T. sufficiently accurate.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

_Oldham, Bishop of Exeter_ (Vol. vii., p. 14.).--No pedigree of this
prelate's family is known to have been referred to by any of the Devonshire
historians. The arms used by the bishop, and still remaining in several
churches of the diocese, were: Sable, a chevron or, between three owls
proper; on a chief of the second as many roses gules.

Burke, in the _Encyclopedia of Heraldry_, gives a different coat as borne
by Oldham of Hatherleigh in the co. of Devon.

J. D.

_Arms at Bristol_ (Vol. vii., p. 67.).--It may afford a clue to E. D. to be
informed that coats of arms bearing a chevron charged with three bucks'
heads caboshed were used by the families of Cervington or Servington, and
Parry.

J. D.

_The Cross and the Crucifix_ (Vol. v., pp. 39. 85.).--Under this title I
find two articles; and, as it is an interesting subject, I should like to
send a quotation which I copied some time since from the _Octavius_ of
Minucius Felix, A.D. 210 (Adam. Clarke):

    "Cruces etiam nec colimus nec optamus. Vos plane qui ligneos deos
    consecratis, cruces ligneas, ut deorum vestrorum partes, forsitan
    adoratis. Nam et signa ipsa, et cantabra, et vexilla castrorum, quid
    aliud quam inauratæ cruces sunt et ornatæ? Tropæa vestra victricia non
    tantum simplicis crucis faciem, verum et affixi hominis imitantur.
    Signum sane crucis naturaliter visimus in {190} navi, cum velis
    tumentibus vehitur, cum expansis palmulis labitur," &c.

Similar sentiments, in almost the same words, are expressed by Tertullian,
_Apologet._, sect. 16.; and _Ad Nationes_, sect. 12. See also Justin
Martyr, _Apol._ lib. i. sect. 72. The quotation from M. Felix is from the
Leipsic edit., 1847, pp. 41, 42.

B. H. C.

_Sir Kenelm Digby_ (Vol. vii., p. 85.).--I am not at all convinced of the
accuracy of the statement made by your correspondent VANDYKE, "that Sir
Kenelm Digby is (VANDYKE believes _always_) represented with a sunflower by
his side." There are various prints of Sir Kenelm Digby at the British
Museum, which I have very recently examined, and I can find but one which
bears the device alluded to and which is placed, not "by the side of Sir
Kenelm Digby," but with other allegorical symbols, at the bottom of the
print. Nor do the _Private Memoirs_ (first published in 1827 by the late
Sir Harris Nicolas) contain anything to throw light on the supposed
adoption of this emblem by Sir Kenelm Digby.

P. C. S. S.

A correspondent signing himself VANDYKE asks, "Why is Sir Kenelm Digby
represented, I believe always, with a sunflower by his side?" The very
first portrait of Digby I turned to, in Lodge's _Collection_, engraved,
too, after Vandyke, is without any flower at all.

JAYDEE.

_Martin Drunk_ (Vol. v., p. 587.).--I cannot find that this phrase has been
satisfactorily elucidated. Perhaps the following will throw some additional
light on the subject.

In an _Analysis of the Gospels for the Lord's Days_, by Conrad Dieteric,
edit. 1631, p. 465., I read:

    "Tritum est illud veterum veriverbium:

     'Festa _Martini_ iterata,
      Absumunt anseres et prata.'

    Id quod Germanicus hunc in modum effert:

     'Wer all tag will S. Martin prassen,
      Der muss endlich S. Nicias fasten.'"

It would seem from this, that not the English alone were wont to enjoy
themselves on St. Martin's Day. Baxter, in his _Saint's Rest_ (p. 116. 1st
edit.), seems to use the word _Martin_ as synonymous with a noisy tippler:

    "The language of Martin is there a stranger, and the sound of his echo
    is not heard."

Internal evidence clearly refers all these sayings to the unrestrained
mirth and jollity with which the feast of St. Martin was anciently
celebrated.

B. H. C.

_The Church Catechism_ (Vol. vii., p. 64.).--It might interest your
correspondent to know that the _Catechismus brevis et Catholicus_ of
Jacobus Schoepper (published at Antwerp, 1555), contains a remarkable
series of passages closely similar to the last twelve questions and answers
of the Church Catechism. If desired, I would send these "parallel
passages," as I expect the book is very scarce.

B. H. C.

_Sham Epitaphs and Quotations_ (Vol. vi., p 340.).--Your correspondent A.
A. D. asks, in reference to a certain epitaph, "has it really a local
habitation, and where?" This is a Query full of grave suggestions. Are
there not hundreds of epitaphs in print which have no existence except as
printer's paragraphs, and which serve the same purpose as the immortal calf
with six legs, and the numberless gigantic gooseberries and plethoric
turnips. I have collected epitaphs for years past, and it is surprising how
many--and those some of the best in a literary sense--defy every attempt to
trace them to sepulchral sources. Besides epitaphs, I believe many sham
quotations are used by writers, such as couplets and queer phrases of their
own coining; but which are inclosed between inverted commas, either to rid
their authors of the responsibility of the sentiments they convey, or to
add weight to the argument they are introduced to illustrate. A short time
since, I contributed a tale to a journal; at the head of each chapter stood
a couplet of my own composing, which the printer and editor both mistook
for a series of quotations, and kindly affixed inverted commas to them;
and, as in that instance I did not receive proof slips to correct, the tale
was published, adorned with these sham quotations--the reader being
bamboozled without intention, and I robbed of the credit of my original
couplets. This is an important matter: for it is no pleasant affair to
spend a month or two in the endeavour to trace a quotation, and then to
become convinced that you have been hunting for a mare's nest.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

_Door-head Inscription_ (Vol. vii., p. 23.).--In accordance with the
suggestion of A. B. R., I have by means of a friend obtained an accurate
transcript of the door-head inscription at Wymondham. It runs thus:

 "Nec mihi glis servus, nec hospes hirudo."

The doubts I felt, when I stated that I quoted from memory, related to the
first word or two; and it has proved that I was in error there. The
_hirudo_, however, must stand; although it is a question not easy to
decide, "whether a greedy or a gossiping guest would be the worst household
infliction."

B. B. WOODWARD.

St. John's Wood.

_Potguns_ (vol. vi., p. 612.).--DR. RIMBAULT, in reply to J. R. R.,
explains _potguns_ by "small guns." {191} They are, in fact, short
cylinders set perpendicularly in a frame, "flat-candlestick"-wise, four or
six in a row; and were fired by a train of powder running from touch-hole
to touch-hole, as a part of the entertainment (a _feu-de-joie_, I suppose)
at the public grounds at Norwich some twenty years ago, as I remember.

B. B. WOODWARD.

St. John's Wood.

"_Pompey the Little._"--You mentioned lately the author of _Pompey the
Little_ (Vol. vi., pp. 433. 472.). There is a curious note respecting him
attached to the entry of another anonymous publication of his, "Philemon
and Hydaspes, relating to a Conversation with Hortensius upon the subject
of false Religion, 2nd edit., 8vo., 1738," in _Bibliotheca Parriana_, p.
85., which I transcribe:

    "_Mem._ These tracts are supposed to be wrote by H. C., Esq., of Mag.
    Coll., Cambridge.--J. Hetherington. Mr. Coventry wrote _Pompey the
    Little_. He took orders, and became vicar of Edgware, Middlesex; and he
    often preached from a folio volume of Tillotson's Sermons, which lay in
    the pulpit from week to week. He died of the small-pox. When living at
    Stanmore I heard much of his pleasantry, his politeness, and his
    integrity. I first read this book at the Rev. Dr. Davy's house in
    Norfolk, in August, 1816. This copy was most obligingly sent to me by
    Mr. Holmes, keeper of an academy at Stratford-upon-Avon, Thursday, Feb.
    13, 1817.--S. P[arr]."

BALLIOLENSIS.

_Eagles supporting Lecterns_ (Vol. vi., pp. 415. 543.).--Are not many, or
most of the so-called _eagles_ on lecterns in churches, _pelicans_? The
symbolical significance of the pelican "vulning its breast," as the heralds
have it, is well known. Some of these, which I remember well, have the beak
bent down upon the breast and beneath it, instead of the indications of
plumage elsewhere visible, a strip cross-hatched; in sign, as I have
supposed, of the flowing blood.

B. B. WOODWARD.

St. John's Wood.

_Lady Day in Harvest_ (Vol. vi., p. 589.).--The _Gotha Almanac_ gives Aug.
15 for Maria Himmelfahrt, or the Assumption; and Sept. 8 for Maria Geburt,
or the Nativity. I happened to be going up the Rigi last year on the 5th
August, and found that to be the day of pilgrimage to Mary zum Schnee, or
Notre Dame des Neiges, who has a chapel which is passed in the ascent.

J. P. O.

_Inscriptions in Churches_ (Vol. vii., p. 25.).--NORRIS DECK'S extract,
assigning these inscriptions to the reign of Edward VI., is valuable; but
he need not have dissented from your account of the colloquy between
Elizabeth and Dean Nowell, as you clearly hinted that "similar inscriptions
had been _previously_ adopted" (Vol. vi., p. 511.). The colloquy occurred
in the fourth year of Elizabeth's reign; but, from the following extract,
her Majesty's proclamation was observed in Ireland two years previously:

    "In 1559, orders were sent to Thomas Lockwood, Dean of Christ Church,
    Dublin, to remove out of this church all relics and images, and to
    paint and whiten it anew; putting sentences of Scripture on the walls
    instead of pictures, which orders were observed, and men set to work
    accordingly on the 25th May of the same year, which was the second of
    Queen Elizabeth's reign."--Lynch's _Life of St. Patrick_, p. 208.,
    edit. 1828.

J. Y.

Hoxton.

_Macaulay's Young Levite_ (Vol. i., pp. 26. 167. 222. 374., &c.).--I find
another, and an apt illustration of more recent date, to be added to those
already given from Burnet, Bishop Earle, and Beaumont and Fletcher. Betty
Hint, the "waiting wench" in Macklin's _Man of the World_, entertains
matrimonial designs on Sidney, the chaplain:

    "I wish she was out of the family once; if she was, I might then stand
    a chance of being my lady's favourite myself; ay, and perhaps of
    getting one of my young masters for a sweetheart, _or at least the
    chaplain: but as for him, there would be no such great catch, if I
    should get him_. I will try for him, however," &c.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

_Passage in Wordsworth_ (Vol. vii., p. 85.).--I can refer your Edinburgh
correspondent, who asks for "an _older_ original for Wordsworth's graceful
conceit," to the following lines by Henry Constable, an Elizabethan poet,
who published, in 1594, a volume of sonnets entitled _Diana_; and whose
"ambrosiac muse" is lauded by Ben Jonson in his _Underwoods_ (Gifford, vol.
viii. p. 390.):

 "The pen wherewith thou dost so heavenly singe,
  Made of a quill pluckt from an Angell's winge."

These lines, which I find in the notes to Todd's _Milton_ (vol. v. p. 454.,
edit. 1826), being addressed "To the King of Scots whom as yet he had not
seen," must have been written before 1603, and were first printed on a MS.
volume by Todd in his first edition, 1801; where Wordsworth, who was no
reader of scarce old tracts like "Diana Primrose's Chain of Pearl," may
very probably have seen them.

W. L. N.

Bath.

_Smock Marriages_ (Vol. vi., p. 561.).--In reference to your remark on this
article, I remember that a Scotchman once told me that in the Scotch law of
marriage there is a clause providing that "all under the apron string" at
the time of marriage shall be considered legitimate; and that instances
have been known where children born out {192} of wedlock have been
legitimatised, on the marriage of their parents, by being placed beneath
the mother's apron, and having the string tied over them, during the
ceremony.

Perhaps some of your correspondents can give information as to whether such
a provision does, or did, exist in the Scotch marriage law.

F. H. BRETT.

Wirksworth.

"_Perhaps it was right to dissemble your love_," (Vol. iv., pp. 24.
72.).--These lines will be found in Act I. Sc. 1. of J. P. Kemble's comedy
of _The Panel_, which is an alteration from Bickerstaff's comedy of _'Tis
Well It's No Worse_. Not having access to the original comedy, I am unable
to say to which of the two authors the lines should be given; but I presume
them to be Kemble's.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

_Burial-place of Spinosa_ (Vol. vi., p. 510.).--Spinosa died at the Hague
on Sunday, 23rd February, 1677, and was on the following Tuesday interred
in the new church there. See his life by Colerus:

    "Le corps fut porté en terre le 25 Fevrier, accompagné de plusieurs
    personnes illustres, et suivi de six carosses. Au retour de
    l'enterrement, qui se fit dans la nouvelle église sur le Spuy, les amis
    particuliers ou voisins furent régalés de quelques bouteilles de vin,
    selon la coutume du pays, dans la maison de l'Hôte du défunt" (den
    schilder H. van der Spÿck op de paviljoengracht).--_From the
    Navorscher._

B.

_St. Adulph_ (Vol. vii., p. 84.).--_Trajectensem_ certainly applies to
either Utrecht or Maestricht. One was Trajectum ad Rhenum, the other
Trajectum ad Mosam. I incline to the opinion that the latter place is
intended: Utrecht being, I believe, generally expressed by Ultrajectum.

C. W. G.

_Samuel Daniel_ (Vol. vi., p. 603.).--The writer will be happy to
communicate with I. M. on the subject of the life, &c. of this poet and
historian; for which purpose his address is left with the Editor.

E. D.

_La Bruyère_ (Vol. vii., pp. 38. 114.).--There lies before me an elaborate
MS. history of the family of Brewer, with a pedigree. The former, which
commences with Ralph de Bruera (temp. William I.), has been compiled from
papers in the Heralds' Office, Brompton, Dugdale, and the more modern
historians, general and local. The last individual mentioned therein is a
physician, who bore the name and ancient arms of Brewer, and died in 1618.
The pedigree embraces about sixty names, including the alliances, but
reaches no further downwards than the sons of Roger Mortimer in the reign
of Henry III. These documents do not contribute in any way to answer the
inquiry of one of your correspondents as to La Bruyère; and it may be
satisfactory to the other to know that there is nothing in them to show any
connexion with the name of De la Bruere.

J. D. S.

_Murray, titular Earl of Dunbar_ (Vol. vi., p. 11.).--In correcting Lord
Albemarle's mistake respecting "James Murray, _titular_ Earl of Dunbar,"
your correspondent C. (2.), Portsmouth, seems to have fallen into a similar
error, which I hope he will pardon me for pointing out.

The Christian name of _Murray of Broughton_ was not _James_, but _John_;
and the ancient Border family to which he belonged was so distinctly
connected with that of Stormont (a branch of Tullibardine), that even
genealogical tradition was silent. His activity as an agent recommended him
to Prince Charles, who employed him as his secretary during the campaign of
1745, to the misfortunes of which he added by fomenting the Prince's
distrust of Lord George Murray: and his final treachery to his master and
his cause has condemned him to an immortality of infamy. He had nothing in
common with "James Earl of Dunbar," save the name which he disgraced and
the cause which he betrayed.

James Murray, second son of Lord Stormont, and elder brother of the famous
Lord Mansfield, escaped to the court of the exiled Stuarts after 1715. He
became governor to the prince; and under the title of Earl of Dunbar, chief
minister and secretary to his father. He never returned to Scotland, but
died in 1770 at Avignon, at the age of eighty. His honorable fidelity to a
ruined cause is admitted even by Junius, when, "willing to wound," he
taunts Mansfield with this Jacobite connexion; while the intensity of
loathing with which Scotland viewed his infamous namesake is illustrated by
the anecdote of old Walter Scott throwing the cup out of the window, lest
"lip of him, or his, should come after John Murray of Broughton."

D. B.

Balfour.

_Loggerheads_ (Vol. v., p. 338.).--As I do not find that any correspondent
of "N. & Q." on the subject of the sign of "We Three" has mentioned the
existence of a similar sign in a small village in Denbighshire, on the
border of Flintshire, to which a curious tradition is attached, I am
induced to forward the account of it. The last years of Wilson, the
landscape painter (who died in 1782), were passed at a house called
Clomendu, the dove-cote, situated on a property to which he had succeeded
in the little village of Llanoerris, through which the high road from Mold,
his burial-place, to Ruthin passes. Wilson was fond of ale, and is {193}
traditionally said to have frequented a small inn close by the roadside (on
the right hand as you pass through the village from Mold towards the vale
of Clwyd), and to have spent many an hour upon the bench under a tree which
was lately, and is perhaps still standing opposite. His friend the
landlord, wanting a new sign, or more probably a restoration of the old
established one, Wilson painted for him the heads of two very merry
red-faced men, who are looking hard, with a broad grin, towards the
spectator. Long exposure to the wind and weather had, when I saw them,
nearly obliterated the original colouring of the heads, and I have heard
that some Dick Tinto has of late years restored the rubicund hue to their
cheeks: but the words "We Three Loggerheads Be" were quite legible ten
years ago. The innkeeper, who sets a very high value on this sign, is, I
believe, a son of the man for whom Wilson painted it. It is not attached to
a pole, but fastened against the front of the inn: and a few years ago, an
idea prevailing that "The Loggerheads" had been painted on the back of an
unfinished landscape, an artist offered the innkeeper a sum of money to be
allowed to take it down, and ascertain the fact. But it was indignantly
refused, with a protest that the sign which Wilson had painted should never
be removed from its place, as long as he lived.

CAMBRENSIS.

_Lord Nelson and Walter Burke_ (Vol. vi., p. 576.).--An obituary memoir of
Mr. Burke appears in the _Examiner_ for October 1, 1815.

H. G. D.

_Parochial Libraries_ (Vol. vi., pp. 432. 559.).--An ancient parochial
library existed some seven or eight and twenty years ago at Gillingham in
Dorsetshire. I was for a short period at that time the _locum tenens_ of
the then rector of Gillingham; but at this distance of time remember
scarcely more than that the books were kept in a small room devoted to the
purpose in the rectory house, and were probably above two hundred in
number.

COKELY.

_St. Botulph_ (Vol. vii., p. 84.).--The life of St. Botulph, contained in
the Harleian MS. No. 3097., is by Fulcard, a monk of Thorney, as appears by
the dedication. It is the same as that printed by Capgrave, who omits the
dedication. Fulcard wrote the lives of certain other saints buried at
Thorney (Torhtred and Tancred). The dedication does not belong exclusively
to the life of Botulph, but forms the introduction to all three lives. It
was for this reason, I suppose, that Capgrave (or rather John of Tynemouth,
from whom he borrowed) omitted it.

C. W. G.

_Turner's Picture of Eltham Palace_ (Vol. vii., p. 90.).--J. H. A. mentions
a picture of "King John's Palace at Eltham, by the late Mr. Turner." Could
he inform me what has now become of that picture, and also whether it was
rated among that celebrated artist's best works or not?

A. W. S.

"_Mémoires d'un Homme d'Etat_" (Vol. vi., pp. 412. 588.).--There seems to
be sufficient reason for believing in the disavowal of Prince Hardenberg
being the author, made by his friend and agent Privy-Counsellor Schoell, to
whom the prince, at his death, had confided his genuine _Mémoires_. M.
Schoell thought the best care would be taken of them by placing them under
the official safeguard of the Prussian minister; and his decision was, that
they were not to be published till after the lapse of fifty years from the
prince's death, which took place in 1822. Copies, however, of the original
_Mémoires_ had been surreptitiously taken before their seclusion from the
public eye; and from these copies, important and extensive extracts are
said to have been undoubtedly made, and form part of the printed
_Mémoires_. In editing them, several well-known literary men were employed;
among whom are enumerated, Alphonse de Beauchamp, A. Schubart, and Count A.
F. D'Allonville. A Mons. Montveran (the author, I believe, of a work on
English jurisprudence) announced, some years ago, a publication, in which
he promised to disclose the original sources of the _Mémoires_ and the
compilers' names; but, so far as I can discover, M. Montveran has never
redeemed his promise.

J. M.

Oxford.

_Indian Chess Problem_ (Vol. vi., p. 464.).--This most beautiful of chess
problems was sent from India, in a letter addressed to the editor of the
_Chess Player's Chronicle_, signed "Shagird" (native Indian chess player).

It was published in the _Chronicle_ in 1846, vol. vi. p. 54., _without_ the
solution, which is as follows:

            WHITE.           |       BLACK.
                             |
  B. from R. 6th to B. 1st.  |  Pawn advances.
  K. to Kts. 2nd.            |  Pawn advances.
  R. to Qns. 2nd.            |  K. to B. 4th.
  R. to Qns. 4th. _Mate._    |

T. B. O.

"_God tempers the Wind_" (Vol. i., pp. 211. 325.).--MR. GUTCH will find the
French proverb "in print" in Ward's _National Proverbs_, p. 38., and
assimilated as follows in four European languages:

 "A brebis tondue, Dieu mesure le vent."
 "Dio manda il freddo secondo i panni."
 "Dios dá la ropa conforme al frio."
 "Gott giebt die Schultern nach der Bürde."

W. W.

Malta.

_Age of Trees_ (Vol. v., _passim_).--In the _Saturday Magazine_ of Dec. 29,
1832, mention is made {194} of Owen Glendower's Oak, at Shelton, near
Shrewsbury,--a tree famed from the tradition attached to it, which states
that the celebrated chieftain whose name it bears overlooked, from its
branches, the desperate battle which took place between Henry IV. and Sir
Henry Percy, on the 20th July, 1403.

    "There is no difficulty, in believing," says E. B., "from the present
    appearance of the tree, that it is old enough to have been of a
    considerable size in the year 1403. Oaks are known to live to a much
    greater age than this; and there are documents which prove that the
    Shelton Oak was a fine large tree some centuries ago. It is perfectly
    alive, and bears some hundreds of acorns every year, though it has
    great marks of age, and is so hollow in the inside, that it seems to
    stand on little more than a circle of bark. At least six or eight
    persons might stand within it.

    "The girth at the bottom, close to the ground, is 44 feet 3 inches; at
    five feet from the ground, 25 feet 1 inch; at eight feet from the
    ground, 27 feet 4 inches. Height of the tree, 41 feet 6 inches."

What is known of this old oak at the present time? If it has passed away,
perhaps its memory may claim a place in your columns: if not, will some of
your correspondents give me some information respecting it?

W. W.

Malta.

_Mummies in Germany_ (Vol. vi., _passim_).--In a large hall under the
Capuchin convent at Florian, and only ten minutes' walk from Valetta, there
is a collection of "baked friars," as so termed in common parlance at this
island.

The niches in the walls are all filled, and when one of the order now dies,
that mummy which has been the longest exposed, or most decayed, is removed
to make way for the remains of him who is lately deceased.

What with the appearance of these mummies, and the smell which comes from
them, one visit will satisfy the most curious in such matters.

Your correspondent CHEVERELLS will find a well-written description, in
Willis's _Pencillings by the Way_, of a visit which he made to the Capuchin
convent near Palermo.

W. W.

Malta.

       *       *       *       *       *


Miscellaneous.

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

BEDELL'S IRISH OLD TESTAMENT, Irish type, 4to., 1685. [A copy of
O'Domhnuill's "Irish _New_ Testament," Irish type, 4to., 1st edition, 1602
(_being rare_), is offered in exchange.]

PERCY SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS. Nos. XCIII. and XCIV.

SOUTHEY'S WORKS. Vol. X. Longmans. 1838.

SCOTT'S CONTINUATION OF MILNER'S CHURCH HISTORY. Vols. II. and III., or II.
only.

CHRONON-HO-TON-THOLOGOS, by H. CAREY.

THE DRAGON OF WANTLEY, by H. CAREY.

GAMMER GURTON'S STORY BOOKS, edited by AMBROSE MERTON. 13 Parts (Original
Edition).

HAYWARD'S BRITISH MUSEUM. 3 Vols. 12mo. 1738.

THEOBALD'S SHAKSPEARE RESTORED. 4to. 1726.

ILLUSTRATED COMMENTARY ON THE OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS. Vol. I. 1840. Knight.

MENAGERIES--QUADRUPEDS: "Library of Entertaining Knowledge," Vol. II.

PETER SIMPLE. Illustrated Edition. Saunders and Otley. Vols. II. and III.

HISTORICAL MEMOIRS OF QUEENS OF ENGLAND, by HANNAH LAWRANCE. Vol. II.

INGRAM'S SAXON CHRONICLE. 4to. London, 1823.

NEWMAN'S FERNS. Large Edition.

ENIGMATICAL ENTERTAINER. Nos. I. and II. 1827 and 1828. Sherwood & Co.

NORTHUMBRIAN MIRROR. New Series. 1841, &c.

BRITISH DIARY FOR 1794, by COTES and HALL.

REUBEN BURROW'S DIARIE, 1782-1788.

MARRAT'S SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL. New York.

MATHEMATICAL CORRESPONDENT (American).

LEEDS CORRESPONDENT. Vol. V., Nos. 1, 2, and 3.

MATHEMATICAL MISCELLANY. 1735.

WHITING'S SELECT EXERCISES, with KEY.

WALTON AND COTTON'S ANGLER, by HAWKINS. Part II. 1784.

DE LA CROIX'S CONNUBIA FLORUM. Bathoniæ, 1791. 8vo.

ANTHOLOGIA BOREALIS ET AUSTRALIS.

FLORILEGIUM SANCTARUM ASPIRATIONUM.

LADERCHII ANNALES ECCLESIASTICI, 3 tom. fol. Romæ, 1728-1737.

*** _Correspondents sending Lists of Books Wanted are requested to send
their names._

*** Letters, stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_, to be
sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES," 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

_The number of_ REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES _waiting for insertion, compels us
to omit our usual_ NOTES ON BOOKS, _and a number of very interesting
communications_.

SCH. T. C. D., _who has pointed out a curious error in Disraeli's_
Curiosities of Literature, _has been anticipated by_ MR. BOLTON CORNEY _in
his_ Curiosities of Literature Illustrated, p. 144. _et seq._

A. B. R. _Yes, as at present advised._

S. W. L. _is assured that the communications to which he refers interest as
large and intelligent a class of readers, as will feel an interest in the
communication which he proposes to forward, and which we shall gladly
receive_.

C. D. W. T. (Jun.) _is thanked: but the edition is too well known to all
the Communicators, to require that he should be troubled upon the subject_.

J. H. W._'s communication shall have early insertion. Our arrangements
would not admit of its appearing this week._

TYRO. _The anonymous_ Life of Queen Anne _inquired after_ (Vol. vii., p.
108.) _is a different work to that of Boyer's, and does not contain
one-third the quantity of letter-press. The descriptive matter of the_
Metallick History _has been copied from Boyer, although the plates have
been re-engraved_.

MR. BROWN'S _Letter on_ MR. ARCHER'S _Services to Photography_; G. H. _on
Difficulties in the Wax-Paper Process; and_ F. M. L. _on the Albumen
Process, are unavoidably postponed until next week_.

A. B. _Your suggestions will be attended to in the_ NOTES ON PHOTOGRAPHY.

ENQUIRER (Edinburgh). _If you follow the instructions given in our former
Numbers on the Collodion Process, you must meet with success. The deposit
in negatives is often much blackened by adding an increased proportion of
acetic acid to the pyrogallic solution--say two drachms to the ounce, so
that the solution shall be one-fifth of acetic acid. A_ long _exposure
often weakens a negative; and, during the recent fall of snow, thirty
seconds has produced an effective printing negative, whilst three minutes'
exposure has given a negative picture so transparent as to be useless_.

E. F. (Sheffield). _It is only in converting a positive picture into a
negative one, or in increasing the powers of a feeble negative, that the
bichloride of mercury is recommended to be used. A perfectly good printing
negative will be procured by following the instructions we have given in
our former Numbers._ DR. DIAMONDS'S Photographic Notes _will treat fully
upon this subject_.

OUR SIXTH VOLUME, _strongly bound in cloth, with very copious Index is now
ready, price 10s. 6d. Arrangements are making for the publication of
complete sets of_ "NOTES AND QUERIES," _price Three Guineas for the Six
Volumes_.

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcel, and deliver them to
their Subscribers on the Saturday_.

       *       *       *       *       *


{195}

PHOTOGRAPHY.--Collodion (Iodized with the Ammonio-Iodide of Silver).--J. B.
HOCKIN & CO., Chemists, 289. Strand, were the first in England who
published the application of this agent (see _Athenæum_, Aug. 14th). Their
Collodion (price 9d. per oz.) retains its extraordinary sensitiveness,
tenacity, and colour unimpaired for months: it may be exported to any
climate, and the Iodizing Compound mixed as required. J.B. HOCKIN & CO.
manufacture PURE CHEMICALS and all APPARATUS with the latest Improvements
adapted for all the Photographic and Daguerreotype processes. Cameras for
Developing in the open Country. GLASS BATHS adapted to any Camera. Lenses
from the best Makers. Waxed and Iodized Papers, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *


TO PHOTOGRAPHERS.--Pure Chemicals, with every requisite for the practice of
Photography, according to the instructions of Hunt, Le Gray, Brébisson, &c.
&c., may be obtained of WILLIAM BOLTON, Manufacturer of pure chemicals for
Photographic and other purposes.

Lists of Prices to be had on application.

146. Holborn Bars.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC PICTURES.--A Selection of the above beautiful Productions may
be seen at BLAND & LONG'S, 153. Fleet Street, where may also be procured
Apparatus of every Description, and pure Chemicals for the practice of
Photography in all its Branches.

Calotype, Daguerreotype, and Glass Pictures for the Stereoscope.

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, Philosophical and Photographical Instrument
Makers, and Operative Chemists, 153. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC PAPER.--Negative and Positive Papers of Whatman's, Turner's,
Sanford's, and Canson Frères' make. Waxed-Paper for Le Gray's Process.
Iodized and Sensitive Paper for every kind of Photography.

Sold by JOHN SANFORD, Photographic Stationer, Aldine Chambers, 13.
Paternoster Row, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.--HORNE & CO.'S Iodized Collodion, for obtaining Instantaneous
Views, and Portraits in from three to thirty seconds, according to light.

Portraits obtained by the above, for delicacy of detail rival the choicest
Daguerreotypes, specimens of which may be seen at their Establishment.

Also every description of Apparatus, Chemicals, &c. &c. used in this
beautiful Art.--123. and 121. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, price 1s., free by Post 1s. 4d.,

THE WAXED-PAPER PHOTOGRAPHIC PROCESS of GUSTAVE LE GRAY. New Edition.
Translated from the last Edition of the French.

GEORGE KNIGHT & SONS., Foster Lane, London,

Manufacturers of Photographic Apparatus and Materials, consisting of
Cameras, Stands, Coating Boxes, Pressure Frames, Glass and Porcelain
Dishes. &c., and pure Photographic Chemicals, suited for practising the
Daguerreotype, Talbotype, Waxed-Paper, Albumen and Collodion Processes,
adapted to stand any Climate, and fitted for the Requirements of the
Tourist or Professional Artist.

Sole Agents in the United Kingdom for VOIGHTLANDER & SON'S celebrated
Lenses for Portraits and Views.

General Depôt for Turner's, Whatman's, Canson Frères', La Croix, and other
Talbotype Papers.

Instructions and Specimens in every Branch of the Art.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.--XYLO-IODIDE OF SILVER, prepared solely by R. W. THOMAS, has
now obtained an European fame; it supersedes the use of all other
preparations of Collodion. Witness the subjoined Testimonial.

    "122. Regent Street

    "Dear Sir,--In answer to your inquiry of this morning, I have no
    hesitation in saying that your preparation of Collodion is incomparably
    better and more sensitive than all the advertised Collodio-Iodides,
    which, for my professional purposes, are quite useless when compared to
    yours.

             "I remain, dear Sir,
                 "Yours faithfully,
                     "N. HENNEMAN.

          Aug. 30. 1852.
      to Mr. R.W. Thomas."

MR. R. W. THOMAS begs most earnestly to caution photographers against
purchasing impure chemicals, which are now too frequently sold at very low
prices. It is to this cause nearly always that their labours are unattended
with success.

Chemicals of absolute purity, especially prepared for this art, may be
obtained from R. W. THOMAS, Chemist and Professor of Photography, 10. Pall
Mall.

N.B.--The name of Mr. T.'s preparation, Xylo-Iodide of Silver, is made use
of by unprincipled persons. To prevent imposition each bottle is stamped
with a red label bearing the maker's signature.

       *       *       *       *       *


TO PHOTOGRAPHERS.--MR. PHILIP DELAMOTTE begs to announce that he has now
made arrangements for printing Calotypes in large or small quantities
either from Paper or Glass Negatives. Gentlemen who are desirous of having
good impressions of their works, may see specimens of Mr. Delamotte's
Printing at his own residence, 38. Chepstow Place, Bayswater, or at

MR. GEORGE BELL'S, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


ROSS'S PHOTOGRAPHIC PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE LENSES.--These lenses give
correct definition at the centre and margin of the picture, and have their
visual and chemical acting foci coincident.

_Great Exhibition Jurors' Reports_, p. 274.

    "Mr. Ross prepares lenses for Portraiture having the greatest intensity
    yet produced, by procuring the coincidence of the chemical actinic and
    visual rays. The spherical aberration is also very carefully corrected,
    both in the central and oblique pencils."

    "Mr. Ross has exhibited the best Camera in the Exhibition. It is
    furnished with a double achromatic object-lens, about three inches
    aperture. There is no stop, the field is flat, and the image very
    perfect up to the edge."

Catalogues sent upon Application.

A. ROSS, 2. Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn.

       *       *       *       *       *


KERR & STRANG, Perfumers and Wig-Makers, 124. Leadenhall Street, London,
respectfully inform the Nobility and Public that they have invented and
brought to the greatest perfection the following leading articles, besides
numerous others:--Their Ventilating Natural Curl; Ladies and Gentlemen's
PERUKES, either Crops or Full Dress, with Partings and Crowns so natural as
to defy detection, and with or without their improved Metallic Springs;
Ventilating Fronts, Bandeaux, Borders, Nattes, Bands à la Reine, &c.; also
their instantaneous Liquid Hair Dye, the only dye that really answers for
all colours, and never fades nor acquires that unnatural red or purple tint
common to all other dyes; it is permanent, free of any smell, and perfectly
harmless. Any lady or gentleman, sceptical of its effects in dyeing any
shade or colour, can have it applied, free of any charge, at KERR &
STRANG'S, 124. Leadenhall Street.

Sold in Cases at 7s. 6d., 15s., and 20s. Samples, 3s. 6d., sent to all
parts on receipt of Post-office Order or Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *


PROPOSALS FOR REPAIR AND IMPROVEMENT OF

ST. MARY'S CHURCH,

VINCENT SQUARE, WESTMINSTER.

  _Incumbent._
  REV. A. BORRADAILE.
  _Churchwardens._
  MR. G. PEARSE.
  MR. G. PINK.

ST. MARY'S CHURCH, Vincent Square, Westminster, was erected in the year
1837, and contains 1,200 sittings, of which 800 are free.

The pecuniary resources which were at the disposal of those by whose
efforts this spacious Church was built were only adequate to provide what
was absolutely requisite for the performance of Divine Service.

There was, however, much cause for thankfulness that so large and
commodious a Church was raised in so poor a district as St. Mary's; and a
hope was then entertained that the day would soon come when what was
necessarily left incomplete might be accomplished.

Fifteen years have passed away since the Church was consecrated; and the
time appears now to have arrived when an effort should be made to supply
what is wanting, and to render the interior more convenient, to paint,
cleanse, and colour it; and to impart to it that religious decency and
comeliness which befits the House of God.

An additional reason for this endeavour is supplied by recent events.
Churches have arisen in the neighbourhood of St. Mary's, erected by the
munificence of pious founders, which are adorned with architectural beauty,
and are among the best specimens of ecclesiastical fabrics that the present
age has produced. St. Mary's suffers from the contrast: its deficiencies
have become more manifest; and the need of such an effort as has been
mentioned is now felt more strongly.

While, however, the exigencies of the case have increased, the means of
satisfying them have become less. Some of the less indigent portions of St.
Mary's District have been detached from it, and have been annexed to the
other districts formed for more recent Churches. Thus the resources of St.
Mary's have been diminished; and circumstances of a local character render
it undesirable, in the opinion of legal advisers, to press for the levying
of a Rate for the improvement of the Church. Perhaps, however, the strength
of the present appeal may eventually be found to lie in these difficulties,
when they are more generally known.

A COMMITTEE, therefore, has been formed, consisting of the Churchwardens of
the District, and other inhabitants, and of some personal friends of the
Incumbent, the REV. A. BORRADAILE, whose zeal and energy in discharging the
duties of the pastoral office in St. Mary's District for more than ten
years, through many and great difficulties, have been greatly blessed to
his flock, and command the respect and sympathy of those who have witnessed
his persevering exertions, and have seen the fruit of his labours.

The Committee are now engaged in an endeavour to raise funds for the
reparation and improvement of the interior of St. Mary's Church; and they
trust that many may be found to approve and encourage the design.

An estimate has been prepared of the requisite expenditure by MR. H. A.
HUNT, of 4. Parliament Street, which amounts to FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
POUNDS. This sum, it is anticipated, will suffice to provide for lowering
and refixing the whole of the Free Seats, and to make them more commodious
for the use of the poor; to improve the seats generally throughout the
Church; to alter and improve the position and character of the Pulpit and
Reading Desk; to paint, grain, and varnish the whole of the seats; and so
give an appropriate appearance to the Chancel of the Church.

*** Subscriptions are received for "ST. MARY'S VINCENT SQUARE FUND" at
MESSRS. HALLETT & CO., Little George Street, Westminster, or at 2. Warwick
Terrace, Belgrave Road; or by the CHURCHWARDENS of St. Mary's; or W. J.
THOMS, Esq., 25. Holywell Street, Millbank, Treasurer; or by REV. DR.
WORDSWORTH, Cloisters, Westminster, Secretary.

       *       *       *       *       *


{196}

TO ALL WHO HAVE FARMS OR GARDENS.

THE GARDENERS' CHRONICLE AND AGRICULTURAL GAZETTE.

(The Horticultural Part edited by PROF. LINDLEY)

Of Saturday, February 12, contains Articles on

  Boots, waterproof, by Mr. Prideaux
  Calendar, horticultural
  ---- agricultural
  Cattle, to feed
  Cedars and Deodars
  Cells of plants
  Chaff cutting
  Chesnuts, early horse, by Mr. Aiton
  Crops, rotation of, by Mr. Hope
  Dahlias, prices of
  Deodars and Cedars
  Diseases of sheep
  Drains, depth of
  Farm, Mr. Bell's
  Gardeners, emigration of
  Grape, pine-apple flavoured, by Mr. Tait
  Grape mildew, by Mr. Cuthill
  Heating, gas, by Mr. Lucas
  Hotbeds, to make
  Labourers, homes for single
  Mackintosh's (Mr.) nursery
  Manure, when to apply
  Melon pits
  Mildew, grape, by Mr. Cuthill
  Orchids, European, rev.
  Pansies, by Mr. Edwards
  Philibertia gracilis
  Phosphorus paste, to make
  Pine-apple, malformed
  Plants, cells of
  Poultry shows, sales by auction at
  Rat poison, to make
  Roses from cuttings
  Sheep, diseases of
  Societies, proceedings of the Entomological, Botanical of Edinburgh,
      Highland Agricultural
  Sulphuric acid and weeds
  Timber, Kyanising
  ---- hedgerow
  Trade memoranda
  Trees, oblique training of (with engraving)
  Turnip disease, by Mr. Taylor
  Vines in pots, soil for
  Vine borders, to make
  Weather in South Wales
  Weeds and sulphuric acid
  Wheat, Lois Weedon, system of growing

THE GARDENERS' CHRONICLE and AGRICULTURAL GAZETTE contains, in addition to
the above, the Covent Garden, Mark Lane, Smithfield, and Liverpool prices,
with returns from the Potato, Hop, Hay Coal, Timber, Bark, Wool, and Seed
Markets, and a _complete Newspaper, with a condensed account of all the
transactions of the week_.

ORDER of any Newsvender. OFFICE for Advertisements, 5. Upper Wellington
Street, Covent Garden, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Now ready, Two New Volumes (price 28s. cloth) of

THE JUDGES OF ENGLAND and the Courts at Westminster. By EDWARD FOSS, F.S.A.

  Volume Three, 1272-1377.
  Volume Four, 1377-1485.

Lately published, price 28s. cloth,

  Volume One, 1066-1199.
  Volume Two, 1199-1272.

    "A book which is essentially sound and truthful, and must therefore
    take its stand in the permanent literature of our country."--_Gent.
    Mag._

London: LONGMAN & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *


CLASSICAL EDUCATION IN FRANCE.--A married gentleman, of literary habits, a
graduate and repeated prizeman of Cambridge, who has resided many years in
France, receives into his family THREE PUPILS, to whom with his own younger
son he devotes the whole of his time. There are now vacancies: terms.
including masters for French, German, and Drawing, 100 guineas per annum.

Address H. I. D., at MR. BELL'S, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


AUTOGRAPH LETTERS, ETC.--A Priced List just published including Charles I.
and II., Cromwell, Clarendon, Essex, Fairfax, Goethe, Leicester, Nelson,
Ormond, Poussin, Shenstone, Henry Southampton (the patron of Shakspeare)
very rare Paul Veronese, Washington, Wordsworth, and numerous others of
great interest. Apply to W. WALLER & SON, 188. Fleet Street. Gratis, or Two
Stamps by Post.

       *       *       *       *       *


ENGLISH COUNTIES.--A Catalogue of Curious and Interesting Books relating to
English Counties is published in the SHAKSPEARE REPOSITORY, and will be
forwarded to any part of the Kingdom (free) on receipt of six postage
stamps, by JAMES H. FENNELL, No. 1. Warwick Court, Holborn, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


BENNETT'S MODEL WATCH, as shown at the GREAT EXHIBITION. No. 1. Class X.,
in Gold and Silver Cases, in five qualities, and adapted to all Climates,
may now be had at the MANUFACTORY, 65. CHEAPSIDE. Superior Gold London-made
Patent Levers, 17, 15, and 12 guineas. Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 4
guineas. First-rate Geneva Levers, in Gold Cases, 12, 10, and 8 guineas.
Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 5 guineas. Superior Lever, with
Chronometer Balance, Gold, 27, 23, and 19 guineas. Bennett's Pocket
Chronometer, Gold, 50 guineas; Silver, 40 guineas. Every Watch skilfully
examined, timed, and its performance guaranteed. Barometers, 2l., 3l., and
4_l_. Thermometers from 1s. each.

BENNETT, Watch, Clock, and Instrument Maker to the Royal Observatory, the
Board of Ordnance, the Admiralty, and the Queen,

65. CHEAPSIDE.

       *       *       *       *       *


WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY.

3. PARLIAMENT STREET, LONDON.

Founded A.D. 1842.

  _Directors._

  H. E. Bicknell, Esq.          | J. H. Goodhart, Esq.
  W. Cabell, Esq.               | T. Grissell, Esq.
  T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M.P.  | J. Hunt, Esq.
  G. H. Drew, Esq.              | J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
  W. Evans, Esq.                | E. Lucas, Esq.
  W. Freeman, Esq.              | J. Lys Seager, Esq.
  F. Fuller, Esq.               | J. B. White, Esq.
                                | J. Carter Wood, Esq.

                           _Trustees._
  W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.; L. C. Humfrey, Esq., Q.C.; George Drew, Esq.,
  _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.
  _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through temporary
difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given upon application to
suspend the payment at interest, according to the conditions detailed in
the Prospectus.

Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100l., with a Share in
three-fourths of the Profits:--

  Age       £   s.  d. | Age       £   s.  d.
   17       1  14   4  |  32       2  10   8
   22       1  18   8  |  37       2  18   6
   27       2   4   5  |  42       3   8   2

ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

Now ready, price 10s. 6d., Second Edition, with material additions,
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION: being a TREATISE ON BENEFIT BUILDING
SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of Land Investment, exemplified in
the Cases of Freehold Land Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a
Mathematical Appendix on Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR
SCRATCHLEY, M.A., Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3.
Parliament Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Foolscap 8vo. price 6s.

THE PRACTICAL WORKING of THE CHURCH OF SPAIN. By the Rev. FREDERICK
MEYRICK, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford.

    "Pleasant meadows, happy peasants, all holy monks, all holy priests,
    holy every body. Such charity and such unity, when every man was a
    Catholic. I once believed in this Utopia myself, but when tested by
    stern facts, it all melts away like dream"--_A. Welby Pugin._

    "The revelations made by such writers as Mr. Meyrick in Spain and Mr.
    Gladstone in Italy, have at least vindicated for the Church of England
    a providential and morally defined position, mission, and purpose in
    the Catholic Church."--_Morning Chronicle._

    "Two valuable works ... to the truthfulness of which we are glad to add
    our own testimony: one, and the most important, is Mr. Meyrick's
    'Practical Working of the Church of Spain.' This is the experience--and
    it is the experience of every Spanish traveller--of a thoughtful
    person, as to the lamentable results of unchecked Romanism. Here is the
    solid substantial fact. Spain is divided between ultra-infidelity and
    what is so closely akin to actual idolatry, that it can only be
    controversially, not practically, distinguished from it: and over all
    hangs a lurid cloud of systematic immorality, simply frightful to
    contemplate. We can offer a direct, and even personal, testimony to all
    that Mr. Meyrick has to say."--_Christian Remembrancer._

    "I wish to recommend it strongly."--T. K. _Arnold's Theological
    Critic._

    "Many passing travellers have thrown more or less light upon the state
    of Romanism and Christianity in Spain, according to their objects and
    opportunities; but we suspect these 'workings' are the fullest, the
    most natural, and the most trustworthy, of anything that has appeared
    upon the subject since the time of Blanco White's
    Confessions."--_Spectator._

    "This honest exposition of the practical working of Romanism in Spain,
    of its everyday effects, not its canons and theories, deserves the
    careful study of all, who, unable to test the question abroad, are
    dazzled by the distant mirage with which the Vatican mocks many a
    yearning soul that thirsts after water-brooks pure and
    full."--_Literary Gazette._

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, fcap. 8vo., price 5s. in cloth.

SYMPATHIES of the CONTINENT, or PROPOSALS for a NEW REFORMATION. By JOHN
BAPTIST VON HIRSCHER, D.D., Dean of the Metropolitan Church of Freiburg,
Breisgau, and Professor of Theology in the Roman Catholic University of the
City. Translated and edited with Notes and Introduction by the Rev. ARTHUR
CLEVELAND COXE, M.A., Rector of St. John's Church, Hartford, Connecticut,
U.S.

    "The following work will be found a noble apology for the position
    assumed by the Church of England in the sixteenth century, and for the
    practical reforms she then introduced into her theology and worship. If
    the author is right, then the changes he so eloquently urges upon the
    present attention of his brethren ought to have been made _three
    hundred years ago_; and the obstinate refusal of the Council of Trent
    to make such reforms in conformity with Scripture and Antiquity, throws
    the whole burthen of the sin of schism upon Rome, and not upon our
    Reformers. The value of such admissions must, of course, depend in a
    great measure upon the learning, the character, the position, and the
    influence of the author from whom they proceed. The writer believes,
    that questions as to these particulars can be most satisfactorily
    answered."--_Introduction by Arthur Cleveland Coxe._

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 8. New Street Square, at No. 5. New
Street Square, in the Parish of St. Bride, in the City of London; and
published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186. Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.
Dunstan in the West, in the City of London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet
Street aforesaid.--Saturday, February 19. 1853.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Number 173,
February 19, 1853, by Various

